
One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those are the films people talk about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's also a story for freedom. Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and Robbins are majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other. Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first moment they make contact with one another. There is also a wonderful performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.

He shines when it is his time to go back into the world, only to find that the world grew up so fast he never even got a chance to blink. Stephen King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and excitement. It is an extraordinary motion that people "will" be talking about in 50 or 100 years.
It is no wonder that the film has such a high rating, it is quite literally breathtaking. What can I say that hasn't said before? Not much, it's the story, the acting, the premise, but most of all, this movie is about how it makes you feel. Sometimes you watch a film, and can't remember it days later, this film loves with you, once you've seen it, you don't forget.

The ultimate story of friendship, of hope, and of life, and overcoming adversity.

I understand why so many class this as the best film of all time, it isn't mine, but I get it. If you haven't seen it, or haven't seen it for some time, you need to watch it, it's amazing. 10/10.

If you like hopeful, surprising, never-seen-before characters, you will enjoy this amusing story of a family of prisoners victimized by the system and a Bible thumping pig.

Robbins and Freeman, and everybody else, gives perfect performances for their characters. Their actions and body languages are perfect for this story and movie.
You have already watched this, right? It is really easy to understand the love for this movie. I'll admit, when it comes to movie adaptations of books, the book is always better. How can it not be? You get way more detail than could be crammed into a two-hour movie. However, I still thoroughly enjoyed this adaptation. Yes, it does deviate from the short a little with character changes and omissions, but I don't think this film could have been any better. I am in line with the ten-star reviews that I'm seeing and the only reason I am not giving this parable for hope a ten myself is because I don't as a rule. Hope, aspiration, fighting the system, justice and humanism against the tyranny of the mainstream society/religion. This is the film.
WHAT. A. MOVIE

It is just so well acted. You believe it all and want more of every single character!

Clever, moralistic and entertaining.

Hollywood has done very few consequential movies since (V For Vendetta, Captain Fantastic and perhaps Watchmen..) so grab this one if you have not watched it.

This is it.

The film has it all. Superb actors, even better screenplay, fabulous redemptive conclusion and believe me when I insist with all of that said they did not forget the entertainment.

Are there/will there ever be any other films like this?
Two imprisoned men (Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman) bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency.

Is this the greatest film of all time? IMDb would have you believe so. Despite being a box office flop (that barely recouped its budget), the film received multiple award nominations and outstanding reviews from critics for its acting, story, and realism. It has since been successful on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray.

And it deserves this praise that seems to be growing each year. Now twenty years old, the film has not aged a day, and instead seems to be getting better. This is Tim Robbins' best role, and a fine performance from the always wonderful Morgan Freeman.
This is a great film. It is well constructed, the acting is superb and the characters are so likeable or in the case of the pigs so detestable.
This is the sole film in the world that is over 2 hours and yet I wanted another 2. The story, the acting, the sense of justice, the acting, the triumph of good but not in a linear manner, the acting and certainly the authentic feel of the era make this a justified masterpiece.

Hollywood has lost the ability to make good films nowadays.

Keep churning out the stand up comic Thor, Hollywood.
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are going through.

It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250 list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway you.

Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will understand why this is my all time favorite movie.


It is a great piece of film making and a story of hope. Justice is done at the end. I also recommend you watch Female Prisoner Scorpion.


not for a reason. but for the fine art to create a story who seems be more than fiction and who use a script, a cast and location for a puzzle who becomes part of precious memories. its themes, the tension, the moral questions, the meeting between Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins and the result of dialogs who are truth axis of movie and wise adaptation, are bones of a splendid film. a film who reminds more than presents. values, roots of justice, beauty of original source, the end who is expression of a deep expectation of the viewer are elements who transforms The Shawshank Redemption in an experience for the viewer. short - a film who must see !


It's difficult to review a movie made 25 years ago and say there has been nothing better since, but it is true. The storytelling and the production and the acting and the morality and the good guys and the bad guys and the hope it conveys..., But seeing this in 2021 (again) I have to say the praise is justified.

There is just something about Shawshank Redemption.

Want to know something amazing? Look at the director's credits. Not into cashing in, is he?
"The Shawshank Redemption" should have won Best Picture for 1994. A story of banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) getting falsely convicted of murder and sent to the hellish Shawshank prison, the movie is beyond amazing. In prison, Andy meets Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who was imprisoned many years earlier. Red gets Andy a poster of Rita Hayworth. Over the next twenty years, Andy experiences all the horrors that one would expect in jail: beatings by the guards, rapes by other inmates, and so on. But he never gives up hope.

This movie, like "Carrie", "The Shining", "Dolores Claiborne", "The Green Mile" and "Hearts in Atlantis", just goes to show what a great author Stephen King is. When we think of horror, we think of spooky horror, but "The Shawshank Redemption" is a different kind: personal horror. Pure genius. I can only hope that in the coming years, this movie is recognized as what it is: a masterpiece. I can't believe that it won no Oscars!
I cannot think of one reason I would not give this 10/10 just out of principle. Otherwise, it is the perfect movie with an incredible story, acting and euphoric finale that nonetheless is not without tragedy in the meantime.

I need to find the original story.
That you want a sequel.

I didn't want it to end and I never say that. This is the first one where I said, 'More Please.'

The acting, screenplay, lesson it imparts and ending are perfect.

Ignore my review however. Go watch a bunch of remakes and gender switches, franchise boys.

Six Palestinian heroes escaped from Israeli jail through tunnel today Monday 09-07

They are the real heroes.


I am not black, not a crook, not a prisoner, not a Christian retarded warden and not from that period and yet i identify with these guys, their plight and their times.

The story is entertaining, the characters interesting and the plot development anticipatory and fascinating.

Makes me forget for 2 hours that I live in a period of remakes, sequels, gender switches, DCU, MCU and... GAG.

This is Tim Robbins best performance ever. It is a compelling heart warming drama about an innocent man(Andy Dufresbe) who is sent to prison and learns to use his intelligence to make the best of prison life. He meets a mentor in Red(Morgan Freeman) and they build a friendship that is stronger than the walls that surround them. Andy steadies a relationship with the warden that keeps him in the good eyes of the prison. Andy is full of surprises and uses his resourcefulness to not only win the friendships of his fellow prisoners, but also of the prison guards. Both Andy and Red both hold on to their dream of one day enjoying their freedom. They turn their friendship and dreams of freedom into a bond that no prison could ever take away.
The Shawshank Redemption has great performances, extremely well written script and story all leading to a deeply emotional climax! One of the best dramas of all time!

The best movie in history and the best ending in any entertainment business


It is one of the best movies in the world that many people will join me. Watching very, very impressed. What it might be called the great stories of Stephen King anyway. Acting on cues can say is enormous. There's no posturing. Especially when Andy Dufrense incredible music that review still stands wandering on everyone's lips. Finale as you lose yourself in it is a movie you are getting into. Finals if he so exhilarating you a high-quality music. And finding that deserves really deserve. I watched this film very young age and it has taught me that the magic of cinema in a nice way. This film is one of the reasons I hate the Oscars. Will remain as the best film in more than 10 years, I believe wholeheartedly sites. Definitely one of the best films in the world.

The Shawshank Redemption is undoubtedly deserves to be the highest rated movie. I watched this movie for the umpteenth time. A movie I would never ever get bored of. Written & directed by Frank Darabont, this prison drama is a simple but profoundly moving tale of hope, friendship & redemption. Cinematography exquisitely captures the monotonous daily life inside prison. The bond that grows between the two main characters is unforgettable and the score is the best I have heard. Morgan Freeman makes us feel the sadness and Tim Robbins, the faith. The more times you watch it, the more you love it, and the more you learn from it. Whatever you do, don't listen to the people who say this movie is overrated because this is one of the most inspiring and greatest film. It has everything you could possibly want in a movie. If you don't love Shawshank, chances are you are beyond redemption. It is hard to find a more proper word for the film than a masterpiece. It's in my top five movies of all time. I feel so bad about not writing a review of this masterpiece during the late nineties.
Whilst the IMDb users may disagree, the Shawshank Redemption isn't my number 1, maybe not even my top 100. But with that said, I have seen this movie a few hundred times and it gets wary. There is no doubt it is good, I may even say it's close to great and it has a pretty good watchability rating, but it's forced metaphors get on my nerves now and, in reality, is just another prison movie which is above average.

Boring if you have seen it a few times, but for a first impression it is good. Once you start to analyze its elements you can begin to see the film for what it is. A perfect film it is not, but the acting is near perfect and the realism is somewhat accurate. Not my favorite film, not my favorite prison film, but give it a whirl and see how you decide.



The emotions, the plot, originality, everything tied together so well at the end - normally I criticise the way movies end, but this ending was phenomenal, not cliche at all. The brutality of the prison was well portrayed, and made me feel sorry for the characters.

All the characters were believable and had depth, and none of the scenes were dramatic, but there was tension throughout the film. I'm going to stop fangirling now, but this movie is my favourite tied with the Godfather!!
'The Shawshank Redemption' is the best film ever made in the history of world cinema! The Best Hollywood Film Of All-Time! A Masterpiece! A cult classic! A legendary Epic! A Film that you moves you, leaves you stunned!

Performances: Tim Robbins is astounding, his careers finest after Mystic River. Morgan Freeman is masterful, his careers finest after Million Dollar Baby. Others are excellent.

'The Shawshank Redemption' is cinema at its very best. My salute to this flick! A true Masterpiece! I just love this film! The most powerful film of all-time.
I enjoyed reading Stephen King's short story "Rita Hayworth And Shawshank Redemption" from the book "Different Seasons" more than watching the movie. However, it's still one of my favourite movies of all time.

It has very few peers, and has to be seen. It is Awesome.
There is no denying that this is a very good movie. The acting is great and it tells a good story.

Personally, I find it a bit too long and a little too sweet for my taste, but its far from a bad film.

On the other end of the spectrum I have yet to understand why this film was nominated for as many Oscars as it was and why so many people have fallen in love with it. To place it on the same level as The Godfather and several hundred other films has to be the result of different tastes.

This is a film that should be seen because its a good movie, not because its a great one.


Quite deserving of such acclaim, the acting is superb, the storyline captivating, and the cinematography quite beautiful. The storyline itself was unexpected and I quite enjoyed watching it unfold. Tim Robbins is really incredible in that his character comes off so subtly. And let's be honest, how can any movie narrated by Morgan freeman be bad?

A good prison movie whose cult of fans has made it into something so much more than it is. Greatest movie ever made? Get real. It's not even the greatest prison movie ever made. Hell, it's not even the best movie released in 1994! It's predictable and borrows heavily from decades of prison movie clichÃ©s. It's also nowhere near as deep as its staunchest admirers would have you believe. Still, it's an entertaining movie. Nice direction from Frank Darabont. Morgan Freeman is the highlight with a solid supporting cast. Tim Robbins, however, is borderline ridiculous at times with his cartoonish facial expressions and silly "stares-off-into-the-distance" moments. He's so far beneath Freeman as an actor it's sad. With a normal movie like this, I would focus more on the positives. I did give it a 7, after all. Unfortunately, it is easily the most overrated movie of all time (on IMDb, for sure) and as such the balance of positive to negative is out of whack.
THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION (1994) **** Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, Bob Gunton,Clancy Brown, William Sadler, James Whitmore, Gil Bellows. Excellent adaptation of Stephen King's novella "Rita Hayworth and The Shawshank Redemption" with falsely accused of murdering his wife Robbins facing hard time in a corrupt prison and a solid friend (Freeman in an unforgettable Oscar-nominated performance of stoicism). Great acting and above the preconceived "prison film" genre that also breaks away from the clichÃ© of the human spirit yet enables its elements. Nominated for several Oscars including Best Picture, Screenplay Adaptation and Director.
At the time of writing this comment, IMDb ranks the Shawshank Redemption as No. 2 in top 250 best movies of all time. Let me tell you that this is no exaggeration and no small feat given IMDb's strict rating criteria. Shawshank is indeed, up there amongst the best, and if you haven't seen it yet, you should make it a point to watch it, at least once sometime in your life. For it is an astonishing tale, of endurance, courage, life, and perspective, combined with a stunning score that flows so closely with the highs and lows of emotion that it could make grown men cry. No words can explain how good Shawshank really is, but let the sheer volume of good user reviews made by devotees in this website be proof enough of its greatness.

I still can't quite get the enormous reputation of this film. I saw it again last night and instead of clearing up the mystery, the mystery got thicker. It is enjoyable film with very good performances by Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, James Whitmore etc, but...the most highly rated film ever? I don't get it. The voice over alone seems to belong to a so so film. I love Morgan Freeman's voice but he's telling us what we're seeing. So, the sterling reputation damages the enjoyment of the film because one is expecting something that never, really, arrives. The most interesting aspect is Tim Robbins's psychological journey. Credible or incredible doesn't quite matter, I did go with him without asking too many questions. Morgan Freeman's humanity is contagious and inspiring, whether credible or not because I bought it. So, a masterpiece? No. Good, even very good? Yes.
I have written a few reviews on IMDb and Shawshank is one of my favorite movies of all time. I don't necessarily think this movie was a 10 but an easy 9 for me. I am giving it a 10 because of the negative reviews that I read with saying they gave this movie a 1 just because others had given it a 10. As far I'm concerned it's mine to give, if I want to to give every a movie a 10, (which by the way I don't). I am just sick of people telling me that a movie can't be great because it was story driven and not character driven, maybe I like story driven movies, I certainly liked this one. So here's another 10 for you movie snobs will have to eradicate.
This is indeed one of the best prison dramas I've ever seen. I've always been a fan of Tim Robbins and he doesn't let me down here. But I can't believe this is so high in the overall list (I would place it in the 150-200 range myself). Even if we just stick with Tim Robbins, 'The Player', 'Short Cuts' and 'Jacob's Ladder' are all far better films. It was the ending of the film that really disappointed me, but since I'm not allowed to talk about endings in these reviews I can't explain why! Suffice it to say that I can imagine at least two fairly obvious endings that would have been better. Maybe it's the 'American Factor', what with me being English, but the overrating of this film completely baffles me.

Movies which are better than their source novella!

Imagine that!

I admit I went and read the story after the first or second time I watched this movie, but I enjoyed it regardless. This film is a movie of hope and friendship and remaining alive even if the tunnel seems never-ending.

Well done all around.
Don't want to say any words about this film. Just a perfect 10.
An interesting movie with good performances. It's basically about hope and hold it together. It is the final outcome that matters the most.

Is about 2 imprisoned men who bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency. Robbins, Freeman and the supporting cast is good enough.

I don't think it is worthy to be the #1 movie in the IMDb though. That's just not possible.

I know that "debate" started between TSR and TDK.

Anyway a good overall movie. especially if you are into prison dramas, then this movie is for you.
This Is Such A Classic And One Of My Favorite Movies Always Loved Watching This Movie
I totally adored the concept of hope in this film. I love how the director portrays the Shawshank tyrants as corrupt murderers, that's pretty much what they are and serve as the grounds for the escape of Andy. Now Morgan Freeman's got talent, I love that guy he may not be the greatest out there but he is a force to be reckoned with on the set. I loved how he gave the story flavor with his descriptions of characters and perceptions of how life was in lonely jail cells of Shawshank. You know there's a lot more to say about this movie, it's too good too be true. Especially the ending which by the way brought tears to eyes, the most moving scene!!! Overall it was superb and all thanks to Stephen King for putting this in the form of alphabets in the first place. I'm starting to regret not reading any of his novels. And kudos to the director for even coming up with such an idea for a movie.
I liked this film. That sums it up pretty well. This film is good, in some aspects very good, but the best film of all time? I usually don't say this, but I think The Shawshank Redemption is overrated. I don't want to take away from the performances, the story or the score, those were really good. I guess Opinions differ and that's fine. For me personally the fact that I knew that this film was "the highest rated film of all time" unfortunately hurt my experience. I was expecting a lot more, which in the end I didn't get. But still a good watch nonetheless.
There's a reason this is rated the #1 . It is the same reason you simply watch this movie every time you see it on tv even if it's already half way over. It's captivating, brilliant and full of heart.
It deserves ten stars. Its beauty lies in its slow pace and genteel wit, although some may not have the patience for the slowness. But the whole premise of life inside a prison cell makes better sense when told in a calm, emotion-building, pace such as this. Otherwise, one would never get to know Tim Robbins's quiet accountant (and what makes him appear alternately shy, snobbish, and suicidal all at the same time); or Morgan Freeman's genial-but-cynical lifer- not to mention how he's "a man who knows how to get things." I love what the film doesn't do: it doesn't make an issue of its two leads being different races (although one could claim that makes their friendship all the more marvelous), it doesn't pull any sensational, far-out, action punches (as films with an all-male cast often do), and it doesn't freeze its characters into types. Everyone is real and everyone is flawed- from James Whitmore's bird loving veteran to Bob Gunton's pretentious, icy, warden. But the finish (which really starts around the film's last twenty minutes) is one of the most powerful and moving things ever committed to film. Get it in either format.

Its not that amazing neither is it bad its just idk that cousin at the family reuinion that nobody cares about and they just stand their to make it look more crowded even though there not needed this film is not needed and the movie is just there.

The first time I ever saw this movie I was just floored at how incredible it was. What wonderful casting that was done to help this amazing story be told. Stephen King has a way about creating such memorable characters. For those of you who think this movie is a "prison movie" you are sadly mistaken. This movie merely takes place in a prison but this story is about so much more...friendship, hope, survival and dreams! There is a reason this movie is voted #1 on the IMDb site! Not only have I enjoyed watching this movie over a hundred times but I have been lucky enough to have been in that prison numerous times doing paranormal events. My last visit out there was last weekend and I decided to also go and visit all of the filming locations! That was a real treat! All I can say is that if you have not seen this film just take the time to watch it and just take in the amazing story and the incredible performances turned in by the cast! I promise you that you won't be sorry!!!
Decent entertainment, somewhat memorable. Why this is seen as such an incredible, sensational work of art is beyond me... I feel like this is one of the few crime-thriller-prison-action related films that met my expectations, as in, was A Good Film, but that alone doesn't make it a classic.
I first saw this film, like many others, by chance and on DVD. And like others, I have since watched it over and over again. When I feel sad, it makes me feel happy, when I need hope, it gives me hope.When I want to reaffirm my very belief in life, and all it can offer, this film gives me a new sense of purpose that no other film has ever come close to doing.It soars above anything any other movie has tried to achieve in the way it touches on the true virtues of life itself. The portrayal of friendship, the devastation of loss and the maintaining of hope. Outstanding performances from the two leads and the most beautiful of narratives are the tip of the iceberg of why this film is so great. The cinematography from the very first shots of the prison are stunning and the accompanying soundtrack add to the haunting atmosphere when we first venture inside the prison walls. Thank you Mr Darabont, Mr Robins and Mr Freeman. Thank you to every one else involved. You changed my life

This film will stand the test of time And it will remain one of the best films ever made

Please do not remake this gem It must be left alone..

Superb

i watch this movie for minimum 5-6 times first to last. so every time i enjoyed as i watching it first time. its a piece of art. and we now know how to entertain with no action or fighting scenes. its a pure drama that anyone can enjoy with family in silence. so i rate this movie 10 out of 10 because of amazing screen play, acting, casting, background scoring editing etc. this is my first movie review so pardon me if i did any mistake.
One of the best movies ever made. Simple as that. Top 20 ever, and top 3 of the 90s. The ending is just so powerful.
A film about a Stephen King story? Directed by Frank Darabont. . . Who? Starring Tim Robbins. . . Wasn't he the guy from Howard the Duck? I admit, only the sublime acting talents of Morgan Freeman took me along to see this movie. Now the only questions I have to ask are: Why didn't EVERYBODY go to see this movie? and, Why didn't Morgan Freeman win the Oscar? Tom Hanks is a fine actor but, he should never have beaten Morgan. Once again a Stephen King short story translates to film better than his horror opus'. Tim Robbins pulls out his finest performance to date, and, Mr Darabont take a bow. Very rarely are you left with a large smile and warm heart at the end of a movie but, I could have danced as the camera slowly panned back from the beach. . . Perfect.

You could describe "The Shawshank Redemption" in a number of ways; engrossing drama, riveting character study, top-shelf prison movie. But it's nothing it not a shining example of the power of the indomitable human spirit. You root for Andy Dufresne from the very beginning as a man unfairly targeted by fate, and you want desperately for him to succeed . . . somehow. Mixed in with all of this is a well-written story about friendship, and even a little bit of revenge to sweeten the deal. As a Stephen King story, it's a classic, and a faithful screen adaptation.

And that cast is impeccable.

9/10
a film about freedom. not only because the story has as scene a prison. but for the force and grace and precise of creation freedom of actors and director, ideas and dialogs, whole script and special emotions of viewer. it is a rare film because it represents more than brilliant acting or smart script. it is a homage for basic values and eulogy to friendship. it is representation of a form of revolution who can be considered fruit of a different religious perception. it seems be perfect. and this is key to be more than a good/interesting film but an extraordinary cinema lesson. Red, Rita Hayworth poster and Andy Dufresne. that is all. at first sigh.
So worth seeing in the theater thanks to fathom events and 25th anniversary plus Stephen King turned 72 recently! I admit I've been on the fence about enjoying Shawshank Redemption for a while but seeing it in the theater and re watching after not seeing it for a long time, I cried, I laughed, felt sympathy, and was very immersed.

Truly remarkable and well deserving of every good opinion even after I was on the fence about it, I love the movie a lot now; Tim Robbins embodied such a glorious character! Frank Darabont made such a crafty, dark and heart wrenching experience! Fathom events is excellent, I am glad I paid over $13 dollars to see such drama perfected film.

Truly a masterpiece of cinema. I hope this film gets the critical recognition it deserves as the years go by. Almost everyone i have encountered has loved this film. How did it not win oscars galore. Tim Robins and Morgan Freeman are simply perfect in what is essentially a love story. A love of hope, a love of friendship and a love of life, no matter the constraints. I LOVE THIS FILM!
This film is probably the best life-in-prison film ever made. It depicts one man's time in the big house for something he (supposedly) didn't do. This man is Andy Dusfresne (pronounced Duframe) played in his best ever, Tim Robbins. But he isn't alone; he is joined by fellow inmate (who is the only guilty person in Shawshank) Red played also very well by Morgan Freeman. Freeman narrates the life in The Shawshank prison all the way up until the end (not to mention some very memorable escape scenes). Very memorable, showing what movies are made of. Based on Stephen King's novel (one of his best) and adapted for the screen and directed by Frank Darabont, who 5 years later would write and direct the Green Mile, another good (but can't be matched to this one) prison movie. A++
When i watched this film i thought now whats this going to be like? After watching it i thought it was a brilliant film,fantastically acted with greats like Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins and Bob Gunton. Very realistic and definitely one of my absolute favourites of all time. At the end it made me cry and thought about life. Every time i watch it the film brings a tear to my eye. Fantastic film and worth watching,it's really realistic film and another one of stephen king's great stories, a story of hope and many people who have watched will say the same thing - if you haven't seen this film already then watch it, it is brilliant, just brilliant!!

be prepared to be moved, it's such a breathtaking journey for the whole two hours. A truly lovely magical film, my favourite of all time fantastic

Since I bought (a lot of years ago) a videotape with two Stephen King's short films, one of them "The Woman In The Room", directed by Frank Darabont, I had the strange sensation that this guy could very well become one of the good directors in the filming industry... and here we are, with another King's story he managed to do one of the best films in this decade (90's), of course, with the help of nonetheless but mr. Freeman and mr. Robbins, who could have spoiled it?
This movie is intelligent, based on an excellent book played by legendary actor as Morgan Freeman. Directed by a true artist ( Frank Darabont), I hope that this movie will be remembered for many and many years, Probably the best Picture ever made in the all history. You need to see at least one time in your life.
Great movie still holds up well today. Cinematography top notch, acting amazing from whole cast, directing on point, casting fantastic. Couldn't ask for anything better.




Andy Dufresne (Robbins), a well educated banker, is wrongfully convicted of killing his wife and her lover and sentenced to life in prison at Shawshank Penitentiary. This movie follows his life as it falls apart and he succumbs to living as an inmate surrounded by hardened criminals and a strict bible thumping warden with his henchmen prison guards.

Saw this movie years ago and was absolutely stunned. This film is a genuine masterpiece and probably the greatest movie ever made. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are amazing and just steal the show as convicts turned best friends. The movie is perfectly paced with very real characters and emotions that are all captivating. The prison itself is very authentic and the set pieces are very realistic which captured the prison environment better than any other prison set film except for maybe Escape From Alcatraz. Even as a hard drama this movie is never slow or boring or dry it is simply just that good.
What to say about the "Shawshank Redemption"? I shouldn't really have to say anything because when most people hear about it, they already have a pretty good idea of how incredible it is. This movie is freakin' immaculate. Darabont and Co. have created not only the most inspiring film in ages, but one of the most emotionally significant films to date. The movie teaches things to us that we need to know - messages on hope, perseverance, and friendship - and it does it with marvelous eloquency. All in all, "The Shawshank Redemption" remains one of the most spectacular films I have ever seen - a master piece of art. Perfect.
I have never watched a better movie than this before
When i rented the movie, i was doubtful, whether to rent it or not. Then i started watching it. From the very 1st moment i was kinda sure, it wud be worthy watching this; and worthy it was. The fascinating performance of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, the direction, and everything puts you in the place of the actors, making you feel the way they felt. This movie doesn't have any dirty romance or impossible actions, rather, it focuses on a greater philosophy - Hope to live when there is no hope, survival -- This is one movie, that will leave you talking about it even many days after watching. I won't say anymore, the rest is up-to you to find out when you see the movie
I have long viewed the Shawshank Redemption as the most underrated film of all time. That isn't to say that it wasn't universally acknowledged by the movie-going public as a great movie, but in terms of awards, critical acclaim, and best ever lists, this has somehow kept on losing out. Now that I see it has the number two position, as voted by the movie-going public, on probably the most accurate best ever list in the world (AFI be damned), I am eminently pleased. There is no way Forrest Gump should have won best picture over Shawshank. Certainly, Forrest Gump is a charming, well-acted film, but it is nothing compared to this. Morgan Freeman excels, and Tim Robbins turns in his best performance. If you haven't seen this masterpiece, get up and rent it immediately.
This film is easily in my top three favorite films. I return to it time and time again, still captivated! Bravo to everyone involved in this timeless production.
An overrated film that I watched as a teenager and recently decided to re-watch. I must say right away that I like this film, but it is undeservedly and too popular and occupies the first line - this is completely undeserved in comparison with other films of more talented authors. I am very saddened that people do not see other works, and for so long this film has been number one among the best films. The actors are talented, the plot is just good, not brilliant, like Stanley Kubrick in "A Space Odyssey". Even this I am ready to see in the top-1, but not "Shawshank Redemption". I understand that many will disagree with me or say that I just hate, but this is not true, and you can understand this by comparing it with other films, is this film so good and does it deserve the first place?
Great music, superb actors. It is a pity that Forrest Gump (which I consider another masterpiece ) went out the same year and got all the publicity, as well as the Oscars. It was not fair.

The only reason for which I rented this movie, two years ago, was because of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. But it was a big surprise to see one of the best films ever made. ( I have seen it 6 more times since then )

It is a story of COURAGE, PERSEVERANCE, TRUE FRIENDSHIP, HOPE AND REDEMPTION.

IT'S A MOVIE FOR ALL TIMES, A MEMORABLE ONE. EVERYBODY SHOULD SEE IT. YOÃš WON'T REGRET.
Satisfying, good movie, but the only great part of this movie is the magnificent performance by Morgan Freeman. An apparently inspired Tim Robbins rises above his very mediocre talent and delivers an adequate performance. Ham-handed attempts at profundity in every scene get tiring as is the use of every prison movie device, character, and cliche in the history of hollywood.
this film is an award winning achievement i loved it what a fantastic and brilliant together drama and crime movie really really amazing a must see to everyone.the story is about a guy called Andy Dufresne who was sent to prison for a murder that was committed to his wife and Andy goes through prison with hard times and a friend for his time in the shaw shank prison with brilliant ac tining from Tim Robbins Morgan Freeman and Clancy brown throughout the film Tim Robbins was Andy Morgan freeman red and Clancy brown as the guard.overall the whole truth can not be told u will love this film don't spoil this for your self its a brilliant story with friendship and survival 10/10 you must get this on DVD trust me its brilliant

The Shawshank Redemption is in a league with Casablanca as a movie you can watch over and over, catching different nuances each time and bringing your own life experiences each time you watch it. Tim Robbins gives the performance of his career and this is the movie for which Morgan Freeman should have won an Oscar (a shame he had to wait for Million Dollar Baby.) There are many twists and turns and I defy anyone to watch the ending without tears running down their face. In fact, the entire last third of movie is filled with marvelous scenes. If there is any drawback to this movie, it is that it is a shade too long, meaning it's often butchered when it is shown with commercials on TV. Rent this, or better yet, buy it to get the full thrust of it. Definitely on my personal top 10.
I was reluctant to see this movie - thought it was just another prison movie - and I was certainly tired of mindless violence. I was channel surfing one evening - and stumbled across this movie. I watched a few minutes, thinking I would change channels at the first commercial. Almost 2 hours later - after seeing the end - I sat there...saying "Wow". That was a great movie. I have since recommended it to friends and family...it has grown in popularity due to word of mouth - and certainly deserves its spot at the top. Morgan Freeman put on a masterful performance, as did Tim Robbins. The way their friendship develops and the interplay with the other inmates - a wonderful story.

If you have not watched this movie yet - put preconceived notions aside, sit down, and enjoy the journey!
Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a man convicted of double murder who is sent to jail, eventually befriending other lifers including Morgan Freeman's Ellis Redding. Exceptionally handsome adaptation of Stephen King's short story "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption" (in the film version, it's really Raquel Welch, not Rita, who aids in the ultimate twist). On the surface, it's another prison-genre picture with the usual stereotypes such as a rotten warden, a cruel guard, a few homosexuals, and a quirky old-timer who doesn't want his parole. However, the film's emotions run surprisingly deep, justice is well served by the conclusion, and several of the cast members carve out amazing, three-dimensional characterizations. The finale is pure fantasy, however it does provide the audience with the release it needs, and Robbins and Freeman are excellent. Long, involved, but engrossing and satisfying, "Shawshank" was not a big hit at the box-office but found a devoted following on video and cable. **1/2 from ****
The classic can be recalled repeatedly. Andy is full of yearning for life and freedom. To get out of prison is a new life for him; and red, who has been used to prison life, has become numb. To get out of prison is death for him.
I remember when i first saw this film. my friend kept telling me to watch it as he thought it was brilliant. well, all good things come to those who wait yes? i did something I had never done before or since: when i finished watching it i rewound it and watched it again straight after.It has a perfect cast, story and the best ending of any film i have ever seen.To sum up in one word: magical!
My top film. Hope is good, and it never dies. ðŸŒ²ðŸŒ²ðŸŒ²
This movie is absurdly overrated by people who think soppy affirmative moviemaking accompanied by a lush score is synonymous with aesthetic brilliance.

The direction is nothing to write home about, the cinematography is, frankly, standard. The script has Steven King written all over it - a melodramatic plot involving the woes of an educated bloke told in overwrought dialogue full of clumsy metaphors. (A good example: the moment when the scriptwriter decided that the prisoner's interest in geology had to be spelled out for the dumber members of the audience "It's all about TIME and PRESSURE..." just in case anyone managed to miss the connection). Morgan Freeman is, as usual, superb but Tim Robbins is inconsistent as a man who goes from being the gaol newcomer to an old hand. While the film's sympathetic liberal political stance can be commended, it's certainly not a great work of art.
A very, very, very brilliant film. The acting is superb from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, as always. The script was amazing, along with the directing. The film is one of the best films ever made due to how original it is. And the reason it is original is because it is a prison film with heart. It makes you care about criminals. The score is also very good.

It's an enthralling piece of cinema and just... Amazing. I'd recommend this film to anyone due to everyone relating to it. People like films were you are sympathetic towards a criminal, just look at A Clockwork Orange.
The acting is adequate, the story is adequate, but why all the fuss?

It sometimes baffles me why some movies get such high ratings when they are really only run of the mill.

This is not that bad a film, just seen it all before.
I think that the Shawshank Redemption is one of the best movies ever made. The acting is crisp and full of endless tension, sometimes forlorn and on other occasions full of fear. How Stephen King could come up with a horror story like this is beyond me. It's a real nightmare to be in a penal system with so many things going against you. Personally, I think that Forrest Gump (FG) is also a tale of Hope, but in a different sense. Firstly, FG shows the hope of waiting for the woman you love for over 20 years. Secondly, FG shows that there can be hope for mentally disabled people to continue in society and aim for goals. I think that both movies are great and should not be missed or inappropiately criticised. I also urge people to watch La Vita e bella (Life is beautiful) as it is as good as The Shawshank Redemption and has some similar points. May we all hope for more movies like these.

PS Also watch It's a Wonderful Life (James Stewart) as this is about hope as well.
I really loved this movie I watch 2 time actually but it was too long
Not only is this film one of the most touching I have ever seen, it also has one of the most unexpected and inspiring endings I have ever seen. The bond that grows between the two main characters is unforgettable and the score is the best I've heard

Now, I see what everybody was talking about. It took me 4 years to see this, in my opinion, masterpiece. If you have not seen this movie rent it anyway you can. The performances delivered by Robbins and Freeman are, to me, the pinnacle of both their careers. This film cannot help but evoke tactile imagery to the fullest capacity. You feel what the main characters are going through the sensation is uncanny. Robbins (Andy) and Freeman ("Red") are a balance of the human spirit. Andy is your freedom-seeking hope side and "Red" is your rational, pessimistic counterpart. Find your equilibrium in "The Shawshank Redemption."
An excellent movie that can surely move you a bit. It throws open the question that can we really have prisons which are redemption centers in the true sense. At the same time, it redefines the word criminal. Are the heinous acts committed by administrative authorities justifiable by any means. There should be a code of conduct for the authorities and a HOLY PRISON MAINTENANCE BIBLE if any reformation has to take place. The movie goes through several touching incidents and may bore you a bit if you rarely sees serious touching movies and are fans of slick sci-fi thrillers moving at extraordinary pace like Matrix etc. However the exceptional acting by lead stars particularly by Morgan Freeman and the picking up of the tempo in the second half will leave you gasping for more. After Citizen Kane, Casablanca & Godfather, it is another classic that will stay in the echelons of the movie rating lists for long. There are a few weak points though. There was insufficient attention given to some characters and movie portrays just one side of the whole story not remaining fair to the prison authorities. And finally if it was told in a non-linear tale then it would have been much more interesting
WEll I had high hopes for this movie. But it fell way short. I was hoping it would keep me guessing, but this movie was easy to predict what was going to happen. Though I did think the acting was good by both main stars.

Jason
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the few movies adapted from books that turned out to be good .. or in, this case, brilliant.

Although the movie supposedly takes place somewhen in the 1950's, I can easily imagine it being transferred to today's time and standards. The thing that is most fascinating about is is that the directors [and writers, of course] didn't use extreme clichÃ©s - there's no black and white painting, just numerous shades of grey. Robbins and Freeman both are perfect for their roles, as are all of the supporting actors.

Finally, I can understand why a certain movies gets a high ranking.
This is the best movie I ever watched in my entire life.whenerver I feel sad or depressed I always watch this movie.it always gives me hope.Hope is a good thing.

This for me and many other people is the greatest movie of all time it has amazing directing it has amazing acting by Tim Robinson and Morgan freeman whoever says that they don't like this movie should never watch another movie again overall the greatest movie of all time.
With universal themes such as redemption, friendship, and good-defeats-evil tale, and without any significant technical flaws, it may be difficult to dislike Shawshank Redemption, one of well-done Hollywood flicks in the 90s by invisible employee directors, while it may also be difficult to find it compelling, imaginative, and inspirational. Despite a prison situation Tim Robbins keeps looking ridiculously gorgeous all the time, but this is made-in-Hollywood.

For it's subtlety, it's intelligence, and it's gorgeous cinematography (often overlooked in this film), this is one of the finest films ever made. Robbins and Freeman are brilliant. The rest of the cast flows through the storyline with a poise and cadence that is flawless. The story itself is based on a short work by Stephen King, but the screenplay is sculpted perfectly and gently into a full-length film by Frank Darabont. A powerful story of one man's journey through a punishment he did not deserve, and "redemption" of soul that lifts the hearts of viewers. It reminds us that "hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things". Gentle and supremely smart.
Tye movie is just perfect. The acting the story the characters are just so good that they will even make you cry
Nice title :) 10/10 best one i have seen my dude couldn't get any better
This movie surprised me so much I watched it twice in one day the first time I saw it. Sure I hadn't just picked a movie at random, at the local DVD-shop, but I didn't expect it to be so good. After I watched it I had a look on the IMDb website and was surprised once again that i found it placed number 2 on the top 250 movies list. I wondered to myself, why didn't I know about this movie. Afterall Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are quite well-known actors. Frank Darabont however only just caught my attention in 1999, when 'the Green Mile' was released. Finally I came to the conclusion that it must have been either television, because it surely isn't on television often enough, or it could just be me, not knowing very much about the film-world before 1995. For in fact, everyone in my school seemed to have known 'the Shawshank Redemption' for a very long time. "One of the best movies ever", my best friend said, "My favorite movie in the whole wide world", another one of my friends. THEN WHY DIDN'T YOU TELL ME!!!! I replied. If you liked 'the Green Mile', I'm telling you now, you'll love this!!!
The first time I saw this film I said those three words a lot to my friends and family. Shawshank Redemption is the BEST FILM I have ever seen in my lifetime. I have seen tons of films. Morgan Freeman gave a performance that will touch anyone's heart. From beginning to end this film shows how films should be made.
A film directed by Frank Darabont. Starring Tim Robbins. At first I was retissant but when I knew that in this film there was this sublime actor who is Morgan Freeman. Anyone who spends time watching TV and watching movies should have seen this movie at least once in their lives. It is a great sadness for me to learn that Morgan Freeman did not win the Oscar for this film.
This is definitely one of my favorite movies -- it makes me cry and laugh and ache inside all at once. Tim Robbins, you make my days a little brighter -- thank you!
It's a legendary film - If you don't like it, you're wrong! Great story, acting, and suspense. I've seen it like 20 times.

This movie is one of the best I have ever seen. I first read the book, and I didn't liked it that much, but then I saw the movie. And that's a things that's never happened to me before, the movie was better than the book. It's the other way normally. But in this case, the movie is so much better, I like the end more than in the book. Watch the movie, it is great.
Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt the most uplifting and touching film I have ever seen. It is the only movie I've seen that has made tears of happiness come to my eyes. I would (and do) recommend this film to anyone and everyone.
The characters are so well developped and well interpreted by the actors that you really feel for them which makes the whole story even more compeling. The structure builts up emotionnaly like only Darabont can do it. Breathtaking!

Fantastic movie. One of the best 90s movies I've seen.

Everything about this movie from plot to character development is solid. The ending wraps the story up in a meaningful and memorable way. There is a reason why this movie continues to be referenced time and time again.
By far Shawshank was the best film of 1994. But look who it was up against at the Oscars...Forrest Gump. It's not that Forrest Gump was such a horrible movie as alot of people make it out to be, in fact it was good. But it was also a very hyped movie. The public ate it up, and they also got too much of it. That might be the reason everybody on the internet seems to hate it so. But to say Forrest Gump is better than the Shawshank Redemtion is a far cry. I wish the Oscar's didn't do this all the time. They vote on who they think the public wants to win it seems like sometimes. It was robbed. But that doesn't make it any less of a film. It's a triumph of filmmaking. Robbins and Freeman are excellent. The character Brooks is terrific, and the warden is protrayed perfectly by Bob Gunton. Go rent this movie, if it's the last thing you do. The ending is one of the most satisfying in movie history.
I had been meaning to see this film since it is rated #1 on IMDb. It is a very good film and very well acted; however, no wayyyyyy is it the best film of all time. Morgan Freeman is particularly good as Red and the other actors perform very admirably, but I don't find the film overwhelmingly powerful. I've seen many many films that do more. I rate it a 7 out of 10.
This is not just a movie. I cant explain it. A truly masterpiece, which tells the lesson that hope never ever dies, live your life
I am bowled over by this movie. This is simply the best movie ever made. The story just leaves you moved and the performances in the movie are clearly the best performances ever on screen. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman enact their roles to perfection, they don't miss out even a dot in fulfilling the roles to excellency.

I cant believe i waited so long before i actually watched this movie, i should have watched it before, and then over and over again.

Don't be scared to watch this movie, you will be amazed by this masterpiece. I cant stop raving, I say WATCH IT NOW! 10 on 10 isn't enough!

I like to keep things short and sweet.
Incredible, unforgettable, three-demential characters that develop over the course of the film
Amazing story with tons of twists and turns you will never see coming
One of the best endings in film
Acting is outstanding
Great foreshadowing
Perfect runtime
I would say to stop reading this review and just watch it already but let's face it, you already have.
This film is perfect in every sense of the word. The second the movie starts it grabs you and holds your attention for the rest of the film. It is never boring. All of the hints that lead to the finale is absolutely genius, and the attention to detail is perfect. The third act is the best of all time. Roger Deakins gives one of his more subtle works, and it plays out beautifully. The dialogue is perfect, and you deeply care about the characters.
This movie is annoying in several ways. The criminals are all goodhearted, thoughtful, sensitive guys while the guards and warden are the REAL bad guys. gimme a break. What is this? Dukes of Hazard? (which was far better than this). Further, the plot is so, so, so predicable. Good guy outsmarts the bad guys and real justice is served. spare me. I know, a lot of people love this flick, but in my humble opinion it is a big waste of time.
In my opinion this is the one movie that is absolutely the greatest the first time you watch it. It's probably my favorite movie. It may not have the replay value of some of my other favorites but, the first time you watch it when you don't know what is about to happen, is the probably the greatest thing you can experience in terms of movies. I only wish could I forget it so I could watch it again for the first time. As a matter of fact if I ever suffered complete amnesia there would be at least one definite benefit. I am not going to talk about the ending and for god's sake if anybody puts a spoiler warning on their comments do not read them!
''The Shawshank Redemption'' is one of the best movies I have ever watched in my life. Tim Robbins is really a good actor and thanks to him this movie is such a success. Also Morgan Freeman is really brought me the story. The story is excellent,the time has just flew with this movie. This movie just gets better with every showing. There's no some special effects and that is just great-just men in prison uniforms talking to each other. Everyone must watch this movie.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made, but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.
This movie I'm not going to call this film the IMDb #1 movie, but I really can't deny that this is fantastic. The cast, the score, the writing, and the power are all here in this film, and filled with strength. It's one of those movies that you will continue to think about even after the film is over. It is about a friendship, a life, an evil, and a hope. A hope that is considered in many ways to be bridge to insanity inside the prison walls. We see these people as years of time goes by. We see friendships grow, and topics change. It really puts you in the prison, and makes you feel what's like to behind those bars. You feel the friendship, the hope, the darkness, and the pure horror of it all.

4 stars out of 4
Like I did a few years back, you might be hesitating about watching this film. The title didn't appeal to me, and neither did the subject matter, so it was only by chance that I started to watch it.

I can only say that the film was a revelation for me and has stayed with me ever since. There are so many dark and hopeless films out there which, whilst they leave an impression, leave the wrong one i.e that there is no hope in life. Watch this film and be uplifted and be encouraged by the message...that there is ALWAYS hope....in any situation.

Please watch this film and the watch it again. It's a great answer to all the cynicism that is out there.
This is just a typical prison yarn with some mawkish sentiment

tossed in. I really don' t understand the fuss. I guess some people

look for grandeur and prjoect it onto middling, palatable material

like this. That's the only explanation I've got for the unwarranted

popularity of this flick. Production credits are fine enough, as is the

acting but it certainly doesn't belong on any repsectable list of

greatest films of all time.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest movies I have ever seen. It is truly one of the most fulfilling movies ever made. There are so many good things about it that it is hard to even come close to mentioning all of them, so I'll only mention the one thing I liked the most. I liked the fact that the movie could have ended a couple different times, and it still would have been one of the best, but for Shawshank that just wasn't good enough. It kept going until you felt the ending was so perfect, that you truly had to sit back breathless. I love this movie and it will always be one of the best as far as I am concerned. A true classic!
An analysis of prison life--and of what hope can be in a prison--Frank Darabont's first film is one of the best ever. Well-written and well-acted, the story of the development of friendship between Red and Andy is charming, endearing, poignant. Nothing about this movie is overwrought or extraneous--it's simply extraordinary drama.
Its a perfect example of a movie that never gets old. Love it.

I have grown up watching Bollywood movies, full of overacting by overpaid, overfed 'heroes'. It was in college that i got to see some fine Hollywood films and this one was probably the finest of the lot. This film at first appears to be a story about life in prison. It fully describes every small experience of a person serving a long prison sentence. Life is not easy there for a lot of reasons. The screenplay is ably supported by Morgan Freeman's brilliant narration offering a second-person view of life in shawshank. But Tim Robbins steals the show by aptly underplaying the part of a wrongly sentenced, wealthy banker.The last forty minutes of this film, however, help raise it a couple of levels above other cinematic masterpieces. You don't need a weapon to fight. It is easy to take away a man's bread, even his freedom, but impossible to take away his hope.
First when I saw how huge the overall rating was I wondered why. But then I told myself I should give it try, and truly it was totally worth it period. I miss this kind of movies. sush a masterpiece, it contain many lessons and significances about our life I'm still wondering how this masterpiece didn't win a oscar then I figured out that it is a small thing comparing this movie and if you don't watch it yet then you have miss a big part from your life
After ten years, I watched this movie again. I wanted to see whether my thoughts will change or not, because ten years ago I did not understand why this movie is at the top. Still, I think it should not be even in top 50 movies, because nothing is special. Years are passing just like a moment, I could not feel his pain or hope. In one scene, he wants something than bum it is happening. Again, for one scene his situation is so bad, than guess what happens? After just 30 seconds, he is good. So you never go top or down during this movie. My suggestion is it is better to watch this movie without the number 1 expectations. The best coutes: "I have to remind myself that some birds aren't meant to be caged." - Red


This is the best movie ever, I have watched a lot of movies and this one is the best of them all. The end irks great and it is just so damn good, watch the damn movie.

The film's been IMDb's #1 for as long as I can remember. That doesn't really raise my expectations, considering I don't agree with so many inclusions or exclusions. I thought this was absolutely fantastic. Yes, it's pretty sentimental in a big way, but unlike that year's Best Picture winner, it tells a captivating, simple yet intriguing story that manages to earn its emotion with some really heartfelt characters and superb writing. It's hard to hold anything against it (if you liked it, of course) when it's so unpretentious and gentle. Freeman is fantastic, unsurprisingly, but Tim Robbins is so bloody brilliant in this. Watching Rectify now, Aiden Young seems to be playing in the same ballpark in terms of the similarity in his portrayal.
This is such a spectacular and mysterious movie. The lead guy plays his role like a Loki.

I first saw this movie back in high school.

It was one of the best movies I seen during that time. The story with out a doubt was remarkable. It's filled with twists and what the heck moments.
"The Shawshank Redemption" is the best movie of all times according to over a million voters. When I saw this movie I was amazed because of the plot of this movie and that was something that made this movie so special.

I also liked this movie very much because of the cast of this movie. Tim Robbins (Andy Dufresne) and Morgan Freeman (Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding) made one of the best performances of their life. Deserves to be noted that Bob Gunton (Warden Norton) made an also good performance.

I really recommend this movie to you and I am sure that you will love it because it's a movie that can teach you many things about life and the relationships between people and friends.


Thanx to everybody who helped to put Shawshank back to rank 2 in the top 250, in front of LotR3, where it belongs. I've seen this movie about 20 times and I never get tired of it. That's what makes a movie the best. The first 2 in the top 250 are where they belong. The 3 LotR-movies should be out of the top 10. They should create a category for special effects. Put them on top there. But for a great movie it need a lot more then effects. The story of Shawshank is absolutely great. The actors did their best. It's still a shame, that this great movie didn't got a single Oscar. It could have win the best picture in most years against all winners.
The best jailhouse movie of all time! Right next to The Green Mile!

What we have here is another classic collectible. If you have or have not seen this film, it's one of those that have to be in your DVD collection... a film to pass down to the younger generation to inspire them on how film-making should be done.

An all star cast with outstanding performances and directing!

If you don't own this, add it to your collection!

A perfect and well deserves 10/10 from me!
I do not know, what to say, I am just bored. Many people say that is the best Movie? False
This is a great film. It is well constructed, the acting is superb and the characters are so likeable or in the case of the pigs so detestable.

This movie is a mystery to me. I couldn't find anything exceptional on it. It's another HBO stuff, without any aesthetic achievement and It's absolutely conformist. But there is a fact: people love it. I want to be fair: the movie is OK, but people put it in the same place than The Godfather! Maybe I'm wrong, but it's not the best picture of all the times, not even the best prison picture of all the times. Now I'm remembering "Cool Hand Luke" or "American Me", they are stronger and wiser. But..people has the last word.
The Shawshank Redemption is the BEST movie of all time for many reasons. The first reason being that Morgan Freeman did his best acting job, and that is saying something. Freeman is the greatest actor of all time. Secondly, Tim Robbins gets so into his part you feel like the story is totally true and you are actually seeing it first hand. The supporting actors are wonderful as well. Enough about the acting which was second to none but the story was so compelling. The audience feels sympathy for the main character and wishes for him to be redeemed, in the end its just a feel good story. I cannot express this enough, GO WATCH THE MOVIE NOW! It is awesome and will never be topped.


This movie is a fine way to spend 140 minutes, but is by no means a movie of the first rank. The script is far too simplistic, clichÃ©-ridden and predictable. The characters are far too good guy/bad guy dualistic; and for a story purporting to take place over the course of 20 years, there is remarkably little character development. And, just about every really evil character gets his comeuppance, whereas the people we're supposed to be rooting for end up in clover. Hmmmm....

Among prison movies, Cool Hand Luke is better--more realistic, and without the obligatory Hollywood feel-good ending. Runaway Train and Papillon are also very good, certainly more interesting. Among inspirational movies, last year's October Sky is a better bet.

In a nutshell: tremendously overrated, but certainly worth seeing.

Filmmakers that plan to make use of Stephen King's writings in the future need to pull an Orson Welles and watch this about 40 times before they get into it. And read the short story just as many times. This is the best transfer of a Stephen King story I've ever seen. I would give it to Kubrick's The Shining, but it's more like Kubrick took the story idea and did his own movie on it. In other words, while it's a classic, it's not that great of an adaption. Andy Dufresne is wrongly imprisoned for murdering his philanderous wife and while in prison befriends a prisoner named Red, who is great at getting outside products to the inmates. The message of the film is strong and clear : Hope Hope Hope is a beautiful thing. The film is about triumph. About friendship. It's also about some knockout acting. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are at the top of their game. A Must see. Especially if you are a fan of Stephen King's short story.
That was alot af time passing that I wanted to watch this film but something was avoiding me ... I do'nt know what was that but finally I decided to watch and I surprised... what a beautiful movie is this ...
This film should not be(as many else films)in top 3 of the 250 best films ever made.First I want to say something about the acting, that is one of the things that makes this one so good.Morgan Freeman is fantastic and so is Tim Robbins(both of them are very good actors even if Freeman is better).The script is also fantastic and the whole complex of the film is brilliant.

ItÂ´s a film that might will bring you to tears, even if it in the end goes to far and everything becomes silly.I mean it could they could have cut out the last fifteen minutes but itÂ´s still a frightening film.The message in the film are that you will survive as long as you have hope.4,5/5

This movie is one of the few movies that I love to see over and over again. Each time I see it, I learn more and more. Like figuring out the joke about "salvation lies within." I also learned that the movie is more about Red than it is about Andy. It is as if Andy was sent there by God to give Red hope and to bring good to what was evil within. This movie has everything a movie needs. It makes you laugh, cry, and feel really good, giving you a feeling of hope.

The Shawshank Redemption is a true masterpiece and a genius work of cinematic excellence. It is a true testament to human will, friendship, and determination. Quite possibly the greatest film ever made. The clashing themes of evilness and goodness within the prison system makes this film the compelling, and satisfying story it entails.
i watched this movie just to pass out some good time... and you know what.. i had sore and wet eyes at the end.. i don't know why but the movie's end, couldn't stop myself..

andy's portrayal by tim robbins and red's by morgan freeman was absolutely great..

i like and love andy's philosophy that "hope is a good thing.." .. and i have tried to inculcate that in me.. i just loved the movie.. i was like.. whats this, its ended so fast.. i didn't it want to end.. i am not a con and neither i wanna be.. but it has shown even the guys out there in the prisons also can be innocent.. and to prove their innocence they can go to any lengths.. i mean that they also have got something in them.. their hearts.. the spirit shown by andy was absolutely great.. it shows that when you want to do something, do it with full heart.. i have just finished it..but i'm sure i m gonna watch this very often, and am not going to forget it for a long length of time..
This is easily the best movie of the '90s. Or maybe one of the best movies of the '90s. Stephen King's sure does show us that he can make awesome books besides horrors. He also made The Green Mile. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are excellent in this excellent movie. they both should've won Academy Awards for this one. Definitely. I love this movie. I must have saw this movie about 20 times. It is as great as the critics say it is. The direction for this is amazing.

Overall the whole movie is great and I am surprised that Stephen King made such a good novel. I've made my mind for the best movie of the '90s. Rating 11 out of 10. (Best Movie of the '90s)

Everyone talks about the "best ever". But how can you Judge the best? Shawshank is one of those movies that is one of those "the best film ever". It has all the elements that make it stand out fro the rest. Morgan Freeman makes this film, his acting and more importantly, his voice in the narrative. The 'critics" wrote this movie off; what do they know? This is one of the best movies of all time, and there are some awesome creations to stand up amongst. Shawshank is a legend of the movie world.
One of the best movies ever,Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were so good.
I dont know whats so special about this movie that made people idolize it but i have to admit: Its well written, directed, acted with a nice relaxing music that surrounds this story. It is a good movie that you can see again and again but its not the ultimate inspiration for me and it didn't touch my soul. I give high rating though because of all the above i stated.

This movie is one that gives to wit the most part of being happy in this life. It is true that you might not be lucky enough in life but even in the midst of crap, even when all your life has crumbled over your face, hope is still your last hope.

One night he caught his wife cheating and was thrown in jail for a murder that he had not committed and after all that he got raped! What would you have done had you been in his shoes? keep on hoping? Well, Andy not only had hope, he gave hope to his fellow prisoners. The brilliant Morgan Freeman gives the cherry on the top in this movie and if he weren't in this movie, the movie would have lacked something for sure.

There are scenes and lines that you will never forget in this movie and I have commented on hundreds of movies but very few I gave the full 10 out of 10 and this movie is one of those few.

The Shawshank Redemption :-

Classic Prison Break Movie.

Worth Watching .

9.3 in IMDB Worth for its Hype and Ratings .

Fast Paced Movie . Intriguing.

Interesting Dailogues .

Pre Climax Scenes were ðŸ”¥ðŸ”¥ðŸ”¥ðŸ”¥.
I saw this film back in high school after having read Stephen King's novel. I fought to give this film a nine, but the more I think about it, this is absolutely a ten film. It may not be my personal favourite movie, but I really enjoy it. If I see it playing on television I have to stop and watch. Shawshank Redemption is all about hope which is expressed by Andy. The twists and turns that play out keep you entertained for the entire runtime with a message no one will soon forget. I for one quote the movie all the time. It's absolutely brilliant and the epitome of film structure.
I have been waiting a long time to watch this movie and I couldn't be more pleased. The Shawshank Redemption is something like I have never seen before. The story was brilliant from beginning to end and it is definitely something that I will never forget. The acting was wonderful, the story was genius, and the whole movie was just so beautifully done. I cannot find a single flaw and therefore, I gave it a 10/10. This movie is now, perhaps, one of my favorites and I think that it is absolutely essential to watch.
I know 'Best Movie Ever' sounds like such a clichÃ©, a phrase used to death. Many people use it on movies which really do not deserve to be called the best movie ever. I believe that the phrase ' Best Movie Ever' should be reserved for one movie only. The Shawshank Redemption. Not so long ago on IMDb, The Shawshank Redemption was ranked 2nd. This, naturally, compelled me to buy it, and then i discovered what makes up a truly great movie.Simple plot, wonderfully acted and directed.Since watching The Shawshank Redemption, i have been preaching to all my friends to watch it. And here i must do the same. It is ranked #1 on IMDb for a reason. It is the best ever. It will move you. You will love it. If you haven't seen it, watch it.10/10

An outstanding movie about perseverance, brains and irony. It's certainly the greatest prison movie ever made. But there's a lot more involved than your average prison flick has to offer. Try character and character development for starters.

The best thing King has written, I love "Salems Lot" but how can you top this one.
Fresh movie. Very good. I do be liking Morgan Freeman and Andy Dufreshne.
I have to admit that I've discovered the existence of this movie by looking to the top rated movies on IMDb and this one has the highest rank of all the films ever made. I was clearly curious, why so high? Why this movie in particular is the best according to the other IMDb's users? Well after watching it I can say that it's not something wrong to have The Shawshank Redemption so high. It's not my favorite film ever but it's a very very good one that I'll suggest everyone who didn't see it to go and watch it. This movie is great in every aspect: performances, direction, plot, settings... But what makes it so great is that it provokes a lot of emotions in the viewers that stay with them for a while after the viewing. There are a lot of powerful moments and scenes and they are all well built in order to have more impact. And furthermore the movie is also able to stimolate a reflexion about various topics about prisons system, justice and human nature in general. In conclusion The Shawshank Redemption is clearly a must-watch, don't lose this masterpiece.

Let me tell you a little story. I am 17 years old and consider myself an avid movie buff. From Braveheart to American History X to Pulp Fiction to Schindler's List to The Matrix, I thoroughly enjoy watching and talking about great movies. After being desensitized by the poor gore-fest known as Hostel, I came home and watched this movie with some friends. Let me tell you that this is one of two movies I can think of that has made me tear up. I don't do it often, and I certainly wasn't expecting to tonight. But the Shawshank Redemption tantalizes your mind and touches your soul. It is a triumph of motion picture and tonight became of of my top five favorite movies of all time. Please go see this in its entirety if you have not.

It is year 2009 and yet this movie is still the best movie I have ever seen. It truly and rightfully deserves to be the best movie of all times. Story telling, acting, directing, anything that you can imagine about a movie is so perfectly done. I believe everyone will have his own message from the movie but if you want to see a movie that tells how important the role of hope in our life is, you are at the correct address. The atmosphere in the prison, the way people feel and the way all these things were put together in a two hours movie; there is nothing to say. It is just exceptionally plain good. A must to see movie for everyone that carries a heart.

What to say about this movie. I still regret not watching it after several recommendations. This is a complete masterpiece. All the actors have done great job.

Now talking about the movie it has a very deep message. It says hope is the thing a man should always have. Fear can hold you a prisoner but hope can set you free. And being free doesn't mean freedom from prison, but from negative thoughts that brought you down here. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman shared a great bond of throughout the movie and we really do care about them. It is a masterpiece and one must watch it at least once in his/her life....
The Shawshank Redemption is with out a doubt one of the most over rated films of the 90s. There have been many intriguing prison movies over the years, Shawshank is not one of them. Instead it's sentimental slop served to uplift the souls of the American people. There is never any sense in the film that Tim Robbin's character is in true danger. If the film wanted to show the true horror of prison maybe it should of been far more darker, instead of inspiration. Morgan Freeman is wasted as usual, in the role of wisdom spouting inmate. Freeman's character is mainly there to look wise and bring inspiration to us all, but he is never treated as a typical person. Tim Robbins is good, but his character is all good, while the prison warden is sure evil. Everything is black and white. Shawshank has potential to be great, but director Frank Darabant's obsession with being Frank Capra ruins the film at every turn.
I figured prison life to be much harsher, as seen in other films. This is the films only weak point, but then the story would suffer if the film was like Fight club. This is a story about a man who loses everything but still survives. He uses his intelligence to outwit his attackers, and function in prison. No matter what happens he still kept his dreams alive. What is a man without dreams? The word institutionalized is used in this film to describe what the prison does to the individual. Tim Robbins will not have the inner freedom of who he is change to what the prison dictates. There are many interesting subplots that keeps the viewer's attention. These subplots culminate into a unforgettable conclusion.
TSR is a movie about prisoners searching for freedom. This movie contains many good acting, good story, and good cinematography. Altough it cant stand among superior classic movies, but it is prudent to tell TSR is a complete package of entertainment. TSR is a core of prison-escape genre.

This movie is an art of philosophy.
I'm not going to go in detail about the brilliance of the Shawshank Redemption; it would be too much and the most haas already been said. For me,it is a tie between this and 1960's Psycho as the best movie ever. It does what nearly no movie does. It climbs through your skin, into your soul. If you have watched it already, go watch it again and if you have not, go buy yourself a blu ray and watch it. There's nothing more to say about it. If there was ever a 11/10 movie, the Shawshank Redemption would be this movie.
When I first saw this film I wasn't that Mesmorised but as I thought about it I began to notice it's Symbolism. The more I thought about it the more I liked it and now it is my second favorite movie. Morgan Freeman is one of the best actors of are generation and the thing I love most about him is his voice. Tim Robbins is perfect as a quit sincere Andy Dufranse.This is one of the best movies ever made and deserves more publicity from critics.

This movie provides positive proof that the IMDb website has security holes. Somehow the family members of the filmmakers hacked the system to grossly inflate the votes for this movie. How else to explain the No. 2 ranking of a film that probably does not belong in the Top 2000? It is an entertaining prison yarn but there are at least twenty prison movies that are superior to this and the filmmakers had the good sense to borrow from these (I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang, The Great Escape, Cool Hand Luke, etc.). In fact, the same director's The Green Mile, which is also based on a Stephen King story and set in a prison, is a better film. On the acting front, Robbins and Freeman are always watchable.
Enough has been said of this masterpiece, so I'll keep my review succinct. This truly is my favorite movie of all-time, because no matter how many times I see it, I still get the genuine feeling of hope the film has delivered since the first time I saw it. Everything about this movie is perfect; from the cinematography, to the acting, the casting, the writing...everything. It's a fantastic example of the power of hope and the true nature of the human spirit. When you watch it, you just know that every scene is classic; so many moments will be remembered forever in film history. If anything, it just keep getting better with each time I see it. I will continue to enjoy this film for the rest of my life.
Little more than average drama for popular tastes. Predictable, overly sentimental, and excessively long.

It's a mystery to me that such a mediocre piece of cinematic art is at number 2 in the all time chart! However, predictably it's not in the top 100 more serious 'Sight and Sound' critics and directors polls that are held every ten years. Frank Darabont later proved to be no master with his two following films, the second rate 'The Green Mile' and the truly appalling 'The Majestic'. The fact that this pedestrian movie is, in this chart, ahead of the works of real masters such as Kubrick, Welles, Kurosawa, Fellini and Hitchcock causes consternation.
Well the thing with this movie is its message. While it might not be the first or only prison break movie, the way it's directed and its amazing cinematography and score has turned this average plot movie into a great movie. The dialogues are superb, mostly short and on-point! And the cherry on the cake is Morgan Freeman( specially his voice).

It's a timeless movie that you'll re-visit time and time again and you'll watch the complete movie and protagonist's struggle just to get to that light of hope in the climax. Couldn't agree more on the fact that it must have been the most revisited movie of all time... And isn't that enough to make it the best movie of all time?
I'm one of those repetitive mucks who'll watch the same movie every weekend for three months or until I feel I've had enough. Shawshank is one of those films I have seen at least ten times and yet, it is still new. The truth is, you're never really immune to the human drama portrayed by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, both excellent here. This is not a feel-good Friday night flick. It's about injustice, desperation, the overcoming of that desperation, and the will to live regardless of time or circumstance. Shawshank set no records at the box office and was largely ignored until gradually, it was recognized as the masterpiece it undoubtedly is. Roger Ebert attributes the movie's financial flop to its unassuming name.

I noticed the film is right at the top of the IMDB's Top 250 films list, and rightfully so!!! Some movies have one or two really glorious scenes. But Shawshank is one continuing memorable scene. There is not one line of stale dialogue or awkwardness. I can't do it justice here, so do yourself a favor and rent it NOW.





This movie is one of my all time favorites. Undoubtedly, one of the most brilliant movies I have ever seen. Story, cast, screenplay all are great. The directing by Frank Darabont was just magnificent. The amazing casting of both Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins is amazing, and couldn't be more accurate. It was narrated by Morgan Freeman, who is the best narrator in Hollywood, I believe. Actually the film depends on the story and the way in which it unravels. It will change the way u think about things around u. Surely, It will teach you one thing that it is easy to take away a man's bread, even his freedom, but impossible to take away his hope.

I can say with confidence this is the best movie I have ever seen - or ever will see. If you haven't watch it yet, just GO! Watch it! Now!
The Shawshank Redemption is a beautiful film. The last fifteen minutes are so wonderful it made me cry - and the only other film that has made me cry is the climax of The Truman Show. This is a film that makes you see life in a completely different way - a hopeful way. Don't watch some shallow nonsense like Mission Impossible II, watch a film that you'll remember your entire life. Watch The Shawshank Redemption. It's got 9 out of 10 for a reason, you know.

I always really enjoyed The Shawshank Redemption and my appreciation remains consistent with repeated viewings. With a 9.3 IMDB rating decades after it's release shows that this is a movie that speaks to people and I have not met anyone who doesn't like this movie. Among Steven King adaptations this is probably the best, I like Stanley Kubrick's The Shining, just as much for different reasons. But don't tell Steven King that, lol. The Shawshank Redemption is much more than a prison movie, it's an absolutely engrossing movie that has audiences glued to the screen from start to finish. Director Frank Darabond did a fantastic job putting this together with top notch cinematography, direction and a great attention to detail. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give unforgettable performances. The Shawshank Redemption is flawless filmmaking and storytelling that has few films that are it's equal. All and all, The Shawshank Redemption is perfect in my book and is recommended to anybody who wants to see a great movie.

In my opinion, The Shawshank Redemption is truly the greatest film ever made. The acting is on par and the directions is pretty darn close to perfection. The Shawshank redemption is one of those films that is designed to make you think, and boy does it do its job.

The screenplay is possibly one of the greatest ever scripted. The way it cleverly weaves in and out is extraordinary. Stephen King should be proud that a film like this originated from his book.

The Shawshank Redemption is the perfect movie. I don't think anyone could give it lower than a 7. The film will appeal to anyone, if not everyone, and will leave you vey satisfied long after the credits roll.
There are some things in this world which are beyond those 26 Alphabets. We cannot always accurately explain or express them. So, Instead we should experience them. We should admire the beauty and creativity involved. This movie is really one of those things. You should experience this yourself. Worth of your time for sure !!!
Probably yes, acting was good, plot brilliant, I mean Stephen King wrote the book, but it can't match the film. When I sow this movie I thought "thats it, this is it, best movie ever". Sure you can find people who didn't like it, and when I ask "why", and try to guess what then happened? They just confused themselves, they can say reason why they don't like this movie... When I try to read comments with 1/10 star, I can't find comment with good reasons that could make me realize, that this movie is a bad movie, If there is no reason, then this means, that its the best movie ever made!The only reason people are giving 1 star is that they don't like ratio "9,2", they want to do more effect by pull this high ratio down, I really hate them :) Sorry for my bad English language, I live in EUrope, my English teacher is big cow with no knowledge...
I decided to see the movie because it's the #1 rated movie on here. I really had no other choice. The movie didn't look special though. An average movie. The movie is neither good or poor. I've seen many movies which are far better I reckon. I can't believe "The Shawshank Redemption" is the #1 rated movie on this website. I don't hate the movie. The movie is still decent. I'm just giving a fair assessment. More than 2,000,000 people rated the movie which is a record. I checked the figures for other movies such as "The Dark Knight", and it's not too far behind "The Shawshank Redemption". There's competition regarding the best ranked movie. You need to see the top 250 movies on here, and the margins/ratings of these movies are neck and neck. But I just don't think the movie I'm writing a review on is that #1 ranked movie. In fact, I don't reckon Morgan Freeman thinks "The Shawshank Redemption" is his best movie. You seen his movies. I'm glad I seen the movie though. The setting is at a prison named Shawshank. 5/10.
Andy Dufresne is a young and successful banker whose life changes drastically when he is convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her lover. Set in the 1940's, the film shows how Andy, with the help of his friend Red, the prison entrepreneur, turns out to be a most unconventional prisoner.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are great in one of the best movies ever made
This line suits the film best, as I'm watching it after 27 years but still never saw such great direction & screenplay.

This movie is truly a masterpiece in every aspect from giving the message to character development.
All is perfect : the complexity of the characters, the suspense, the principals themes like friendship, loneliness, injustice, redemption, vengeance, freedom... The most complete movie that i've ever seen. Tim Robbins is great, sensitive, brilliant: in one scene, he can feel a thousand of feelings. Freeman is very correct and seems to be really "Red". Gunton, Sadler and all the others seemed to have fun playing in this master of peace. Titanic is pure entertainment and received 11 oscars. This movie deserves 30 oscars because it shows what is really important in life. No action, more realistic, more useful than the other films. It was really a BIG BANG in my head the first time i saw it. When i see it again, I think and I realize the incredible power that the cinema's industry have. In a different way, only Star Wars, Saving Private Ryan and some others have the same impact.





My Personal Rating 9.8/10 - This is one of the most beautiful film that i have watched, same thing on godfather the cinematography the acting the atmosphere are so beautifully crafted. this film leaves me speechless it almost change the way that i think, i do believe this movie has some lessons on it. the way Morgan Freeman narrates the movie is so beautiful.. the quotes too. i don't want to spoil anything. anyone should watch this film.
Even in the worst place there is.. you can still hope for the best, dare to dream and achieve it.
Stephen King is my favorite writer and I've read all of his books. When I first learned of them making a movie of "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption" I was excited. I'd always liked the story, and thought it would make a great movie. But I was also apprehensive, because most movies don't do the book they're based on justice, especially when it comes to Steve's books. But I'm glad to say that I worried about nothing. Very glad. The Shawshank Redemption is one of the very best movies from a Stephen King book ever made, and one of my favorite movies of all time. My score-10.
it is the most great film in the history of American cinema. Robbins and freeman are fantastic. it implants hope in our soul. friendship relation between the Robbins and freeman in the film is very nice. i know that movie is the first in the IMDb schedule , and its really worth it. When I watch any movie I always return to your appreciation of it and relied upon, but in this film I've seen just so, I said it deserved to be the best and when I returned to the evaluation have really found is also.But I do not know why did not achieve high income while movie display, but perhaps it was due to have been introduced in the early nineties of the last century, and the film does not usually attracts young researcher substance or sexual violence.
I have just watched this movie and I still don't know what I've just seen. The way "The Shawshank Redemption" hit me on an emotional level was completely new to me. I was emotionally torn apart by this great piece of art. For some reason I have always avoided watching this movie because I didn't think that I'd like it as much as most people. But I was so wrong! I am in love with this movie! I have never seen such a heartbreaking and beautifully crafted movie such as this one. I fully and strongly recommend "The Shawshank Redemption" to everyone who still hasn't seen it. What a masterpiece! 10/10
this film is very convincing hokum. nice, gentle, inoffensive and insubstantial story about prison life - I came away feeling prison was a place where nobody says f##k or fears bending over to pick up the soap. check out Freeman, in the token performance of his career, neatly basking in the falsely accused smart white gentleman robbins' shaddow. what a team... so very progressive. 'hope...' . oh yeah, we've got a lot of 'hope' going on here. The lush fantasy kind, so deadly sweet and full of bull. frank darabont is a gifted man who excels in making pretty pictures that strike at the very heart of american pie values and gives them a welcome support by elevating tokenism to its greatest levels in hollywood yet - that is no small achievement, considering... if you don't believe me check out his latest masterpiece, he just can't stop doing it. hell, why not! it sells tickets.
If you are looking for an inspiring jorney to feel the magic of life, you should stop searching and watch this title.

This movie is more of a drama than action, but that doesn't matter, because it would fail in either case. A viewer can accept the clichÃ© of the wrongly convicted man, but this case is deceptively against the grain. Our society already has a predisposition to acquit any man of murdering his wife, a predisposition to think it is impossible, when the statistics claim the opposite. For that reason alone, this movie is dangerous propaganda, and most often a lie. The characters never become believable, mostly because of the reason stated earlier. Also, because such men don't wind up in prison. The wrongly convicted man always comes from a different background and class. I can't imagine someone finding this movie even remotely plausible. In fact, the viewer has no idea what the "redemption" is. Nothing makes any sense.
It has a formula that gives you this kick; Darn what a good movie! But I need to say this, sometimes it happens.. So WHY do people love this movie and rate it high, when, or WHY isn't the "smart" people declare it like a a peace of art? Or do they?! Still I think it's darn good...but I bet the producer(s) didn't expect that!

Like when we vote, for anything, we need to follow our heart. This is a typical movie that is worth every penny, every letter... and it's a typical 90' movie! Oh.. there we have it! Between gone with the wind and now, we NEED this! Love me as I am.. says the storyline, in my head anyway. And I do, yes I do!

In 100 years there will be 'Casablanca.' There will be 'Citizen Kane.' There will be '2001, A Space Oddessy.' There will be 'The Godfather.' And there will be 'The Shawshank Redemption.' It is amazing that this much overlooked film has in six years reached the stature of a Hollywood legend, not only in my estimation but in the opinion of almost everyone I've spoken to about it. This movie has gained a larger audience through word of mouth than it had the entire time it was in the theaters. This is quite simply one of the three best movies I've ever seen.

Don't watch this movie, you will never see anything better and any other movie will disappoint you somehow. This movie is perfect and you can't imagine anything better.

I'm a big Stephen King fan, and I wondered if this movie would be a good adaptation. Some of King's work has been great on film, but others have not translated well. No fear. As others have noted, this is an amazing film that provides inspiration and reconnects the viewer with the inner core of humanity. The script is great, the directing is wonderful, and the performances are unbelievably good. To give you some idea of just HOW GOOD this is, the first time I saw it was on an airline. Problem was, the headset didn't work and there weren't any other headsets. The movie is so good that I couldn't stop watching it--and this is a movie heavy on dialogue. If you've never seen it, do yourself a favor. NOTE: It's even better with the sound!!!
I had this movie in my watch list for so many days but didn't watch it going by the title and the cover image. After watching it, I see that the movie didn't do well in box office for the same reason: strange title, unrelated cover image and confusions over marketing. But after watching it once, I want to watch it again and again. It is such an inspiration. Amazing acting and direction. Flawless, motivational and entertaining as well. Once we watch movies like this and Forrest Gump, we just feel that other scores of movies we watched is just a waste of time. Watch the movie, understand the lessons and adopt it. It surely adds value to our life, not just a couple of hours of time pass. What more: it is entertaining as well.
This movie, is more than just a movie, this is about freedom and peace, between each other, many people will learn something watching it, about how the mind could be free when your body is not.great acting,great story and avery good script
Well, everyone seems to mention Forrest Gump in their bit about Shawshank.

So, maybe I will, too.

As a Terminator 2 fan, I feel naturally fascinated by The Shawshank Redemption. This film pushes all the buttons of a person with a caring heart.

With a brilliant cast, story line, director and set, this is a master piece rivaled only by T2, Titanic, The Rock, and perhaps Dances with Wolves.

A 8.5/10 from MaRX.
What. A. Film. Incredible film. One of the best in the history, i think whit Forrest Gump the bests. Morgan Freeman's performance is amazing. 10/10
Mostly what can been said has been said. This really isn't anywhere near he greatest movie ever made. For heaven's sake, it's a competent genre flick that runs a little too long but contains a couple of well-turned performances from the leads. Tim Robbins, incidentally, is way better in Mystic River.

Down by Law and Birdman of Alcatraz are both significantly more interesting and original prison movies than this one. Cool Hand Luke is obviously the greatest prison film of all time. Shawshank is so-so. Think about it, was there a moment, a second, a single plot turn in that film you didn't know was coming? When the young guy goes out for his little conference with the warden, did you not think 'come on, guy, haven't you seen any movies?' Predictability is satisfying I suppose, in its way, but give me originality and genuine passion every time. Shawshank has neither of those attributes. Sorry to everyone who cries every time they see it. You've been had.
Good very good its a good and i aconselho a ver fdsafsadfdsafdsaf
This movie is excellent in every way you look at it. Even the ways you don't know about it is excellent. Every time I think about this movie it makes me want to watch it again. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins give one heck of a performance. A brilliant masterpiece to show how cruel the system was and how they can take away your freedom with flimsy evidence. (It was back in the 30's, it's probably the best justice system they had). And how cruel the prison system was back in the day. 2nd all time favorite move. (1st being Platoon).
The shawshank redemption is a must watchable movie because the storyline of this movie is brilliant and you will never feel bored a second while watching this movie, the acting done by all characters in this movie especially Red is really mind blowing.. this is a very simple, but heart touching movie, if you are a movie lover you should absolutely watch it.....
It is strange that this movie is 2nd in imdb chart, as it is the same old american story, where good people win, and bad guys died. More strange, the USA is still the place where this story must sound more false.
Hands down the very best movie ever made. Not much else to say.
Overrated. Drastically.

Tim Robbins is okay. Morgan Freeman is Morgan Freeman.
I can't say much more than I was incredibly underwhelmed by this film. Perhaps it was that I had been told what a great film it was by all and sundry, but I found it utterly average. I am afraid I just didn't get what was so fantastic about the movie. Don't get me wrong it was an entertaining film but not the masterpiece I was lead to believe it was. Sorry.
I'm really happy to see that this film is still on the very top of the ranks all these years, and rightfully so, I'm glad that most of us agree to it. Amongst many films, Shawshank Redemption touches our souls in the most humane way. A film of art indeed, but it serves its purpose to the fullest extent. It is a movie that touches the souls of real lives. It makes us feel human.

The messages in this film are worth consideration, whilst the ending is one of most beautiful ones in cinema history. But enough has been said already, and I'd repeat most of them. As a conclusion, I'm proud to have watched this film. And it won't be the last. Rejoice for Shawshank Redemption.
Run Tim Robbins's name in the database, and I don't think you'll find that he's starred in too many movies worth watching. Generally, most movies he's in have the subtlety of a ball peen hammer across your forehead. This movie atones for a thousand sins. Carefully written, deliberately paced, lovingly acted, this film brings you in and leads you to the light on the other side. Nothing is forced, but not a single plot thread is left dangling. Hollywood needs a lot more movies like this one. See it twice.

Everything touched me. I will remember this movie for the life time. This is pure masterpiece

This is a very good film, working on a number of levels. The main theme of the film is hope in adversity. I particularly like the way that Andy becomes a kind of Christ-type. It still does not quite make my own Top Ten!
I am not going to say anything about this movie. You just have to experience it for your self.
Good acting from all concerned carries the rather simplistic and obvious storyline beyond the saccharine, but the villains are really predictable in their villany and the storyline, while initially moving and affecting, seems forced and unreal once you step back from Robbins and Freeman's performances.

In other words, a high impact movie that rapidly loses credibility with considered thought after viewing. Far more worthwhile, though, than many other similarly stretched dramas and by no means a failure. But by no means in the top rank of movie making.
This movie is about the prisoners. The main character is caught in the false charge. At first, he claims his innocence, but he cannot prove it. In prison, he has his own world. Also, he is so clever. He plans something and it appears 20 years later. When the ordinary people are caught in the false charge, they may give up their life, but he never gives up. He carves out his life. I think he tells me the importance of living and having the hope. There are not so many flashy exciting scene, but there is some moving scene in an important position. They give more impression to audience. There are a lot of prison film, but I like this movie the best. I think the movie should be like this.
Strong, meaningful and everlasting message is what makes this movie such powerful. The Hope, the Life and the Friendship are elements of Great Impact and are well incorporated in this feature. But, lots of flaws also. This movie lacks originality. Approach, characters and dialogues are rather cliched and mold. Portraying of characters is loose and poor. Dialogues are pretty ordinary and too conventional. Overall approach is just Routine and the whole movie is based on the Final Impact of the story. In short, its actually not surprising no Oscar winning and no including into the 100 Greatest Movies by American Film Institute. Greater Effort in developing characters to be multidimensional and story to be less conventional would produce One of the Best. Pity. 7,5/10

Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free. A strong man can save himself. A great man can save another.
One of the best films of all times. They don't make them like they use to, and we slowly forget what art is.
The movie was a great success. The main character was very positive in all three aspects. In despair also do not give up, and through years of efforts to escape from prison to punish the wicked. The movie's main character allows himself to bring a little hope to the dark prison.
It's just sublime. Never dates. Can not fault the film or actors chosen. A must watch for any one!
This is not just a movie, it's a message for your life that if you utilise properly, your life changes forever for good. But you have to watch it thoroughly, with clean, sharp and receptive mind.
The best movie ever made, period. I won't go on a very long and detailed review on the story(which is magnificent and perfect)I just want to say that this movie is a pure piece of art. The acting was perfect! I'm really disappointed that the actors didn't have enough recognition for their performances! Actually, the overall movie was underestimate, by the Oscars especially.This movie shows why cinema is an art, powerful and heart full art. See this movie, you'll now what I'm talking about. I really tried to notice some gripes or problems but, I can't. This movie is touching, sad, beautiful, powerful and perfect. By the way, f**k the Academy Awards for dumping this movie and do for Forrest Gump for the trophies,but it's just trophies... Still a shame that they decided that.

11 out of ten, totally deserves it.
It's an "emotional manipulation for dummies" type of film, with boring direction and cardboard characters.

Nice performances by the actors though, some great moments, but nothing outside the "Hallmark meets Stephen King meets Prison" feel of the entire movie.

I saw it one and a half times, and would see it again only if I got paid for the trouble.

Similarly, I hated 'The Green Mile", only later did I find out it's the work of Darabont.

My recommendation: Skip this, and go see OZ again.
First time I saw "The Shawshank Redemption" was some two years after its release. Second time was yesterday and like every great movie it got even better this time. The movie is a beautiful story about hope that holds you above the surface even when your life seems meaningless. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robins are magnificent, and this film I can recommend to anyone.
This is the gap, the gap in ideas, the gap in values. It is the gap between people, so there will be winners and losers in the world, there will be poor and rich, there will be this described by the story

It is not terrible to be trapped by high walls, for some people cannot be trapped. Birds of full plumage belong to the sky, not to be caged. But if ideas are trapped by walls, people get stuck in them
The film touches on the eternal themes of mankind and the unavoidable predicament of the present. The structure of the film is better than the original novel, the lines are more rhythmical, more refined and more profound than the original novel, and the characters are more vivid and powerful than the original novel. With rich and skillful artistic texts, the director will promote the spirit of freedom between heaven and earth.
Overall a great movie with good stuff about the movie, i really liked the movie and stuff about it and the themes and it's overall a good movie that i enjoyed.
And i think it might be the best movie of all time.


Well made movie with a great story. very long and dragged at times (2 viewings)
This is a different one... at least from the kind of movie I'm used to watch in sync with friends. Because the 'action' in the plot is around mystery and complex characters. The movie omits most of the stuff so you do the work, including the emotional work, and that I value greatly in a movie. Movies that make you feel and think, that are not obvious and bogus are the ones you should watch. Directors that don't tell you in each scene exactly the actors are feeling and thinking... no. You need adventures through each history, through realms of thought. Those are the ones you should watch. I don't want to go deep in the movie to avoid spoilers, since I write reviews for guys to decide if they are going to watch. So here is the tip: If you are looking for fun this might not be you guy. You will cry and I don't like that when movie syncing with friends. But if you want to know a history well developed around emotion, and some really funny nice characters, or even some of Morgan freeman then you should do this.

This is an amazing movie. The acting is incredible and the screenplay and direction are amazing. Extremely powerful and pretty depressing, it actually has a pretty heartwarming kind of ending and the way everything ties together at the end is simply brilliant. You must see this movie, definitely one of the better movies I've ever seen.



The best movie in history and the ending is the best ending

This classic films is one of my favourite movie of all time, and a perfect movie..well balanced by acting with a unexpected climax.
I'm not a person that cry easily but this movie God damn, what a quality!!!.
Just watched it today....better late than sorry...amazing movie.
Sorry folks but this movie is a C movie and not an A. I can't believe that people like this movie so much. Yes I am biased, I really don't like Tim Robbins but he has made a decent movie or two but this ain't one of them. This is your basic prison movie. What can I say- it has the host of usual characters. The storyline is basic, the outcome I won't say but it is just stupid to say that this is a great movie. I didn't think it was realistic at all and anybody who falls for this crap is either delusional or needs some brains to differentiate between an Edsel and a Lamborghini. I wouldn't watch this movie again unless I was paid to do so. One viewing is enough for this predictable laugher.
This is my favorite movie of all time. I have this movie in Physical format and I have it on digital and let me tell you that I will stop everything I'm doing if I catch it on cable. This movie has stood the test of time and each watch gets better. It has an epic feel to it. Freeman and Robbins absolutely kill it in this movie. Supporting cast is on point. The music will keep you in the moment and compliments the visuals till the very end.
Does it get much better than this? After 25 years of watching this, the answer is (so far), "not really".
2417th review!!!!

Superb. Great. Masterpiece. Unforgettable. Excellent. Brilliant. No, no , no. I have been thinking for months to find a word that can describe the film. Nothing's found yet and , to be honest, I think nothing will be found forever. The movie can't be expressed by words. Words are unable to talk about it and I have nothing to say about this masterpiece. But I'm hopeful to be able one day to express my feelings about it because "hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies" When it come to the Shawshank Redemption, I prefer to remain silent because "silence is full of unspoken words"
The Shawshank Redemption, based on the fantastic Stephen King novel, is a moving story about Andy Dufresne, an innocent man charged with the murder of his wife and her lover who is sentenced to 40 years in prison and fights hard to survive, but in prison he forms a rare and close friendship with fellow inmate Ellis 'Red' Redding. The film more or less focuses on the friendship between Andy and Red, played beautifully by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, Morgan's deep and moving voice was perfect to describe the closeness of his friendship with Andy. The film had a great happy ending where Andy escaped from the prison after serving almost 20 years, he also managed to expose the prison as there was murder and corruption going on there, Andy moves to a beautiful island abroad and when Red is paroled after serving 40 years in prison he is reunited with Andy, it was a great ending to a beautiful movie.
This movie is an amazing movie. It's not comparable . Friendship is an amazing thing.

Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were splendid in this look at the horrors of prison life. Great camera work, acting, and a believable script led to a realistic feeling movie. This is only the second King book that made a good film; "The Stand" being the other.
Few movies in this world are as powerful as The Shawshank Redemption. This well-crafted drama drags your emotions through the wringer, only to have them come out clean & full of hope on the other side. The story is unquestionably compelling and absolutely memorable. In addition, Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, and the rest of the cast create a collage of authentic characters that you both love & hate. This is a film that everyone should watch at least once a year to remind themselves of how good it really is.

This is without a doubt, the best film of the 90's. Morgan Freeman is brilliant as Red, his story is just as compelling as Andy Dufrense's. Only repeated viewings made me realise this. Another oscar tragedy that Forrest Gump won best picture over this, typical USA USA carry on. This story also proves Stephen King as a wonderfull writer and not just a one-dimensional horror novelist. So heartwarming, great humour particularly from the head prison guard and the best, most bitter sweet revenge in any film I can think of. A no questions asked 10/10.
I'm sorry, I can't buy these guys as criminals, and that ruined the "suspension of disbelief" for me. Otherwise, an excellent story.

Shawshank Redemption is a very moving story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see this one more than once.
This is by far my favourite film ....I can watch it anytime and it brings out the same emotions I felt when I watched it for the first time....a film par excellence with immaculate performances....must watch !!!
Everything that a good movie can have is there is this movie.
Absolutely adore this movie. it was incredible to watch
Don't miss it! Such an amazing acting, extraordinary screenplay and what not?

go ahead and watch it guys.

There are few movies that capture and identify with the American male spirit. Shawshank is one of those movies. I don't care what anyone's take is on prison treatment or whether you are conservative or liberal, this movie is moving. There are three movies, in my opinion, that every man, or developing man, should watch: Shawshank Redemption, Dancing With Wolves, and Brave Heart. Unless you are a total pansy, these are the movies that will confirm your heterosexuality. Andy Dufrane is the person in us. Red is the person we want to be. Aside from the being in prison, the job they have is well apt to the people of this great nation.
Why do you like this so much? It steals directly from every other GOOD prison movie I've ever seen: The Great Escape, Escape from Alcatraz, Midnight Express, you name it. Because it allows the hero to be raped it's somehow brave or profound or heaven forbid realistic. Far from it folks. The work of hacks, only the MAIN performances are redeemable. How 'bout that warden, quite a 3 dimensional character that one. As are all the peripherals. Its bad, but in an average hollywood way. Of course it's overblown but it entertains decent enough in that much. Nothing memorable, infact I'd have forgotten it totally if it weren't for the persistant and oh so undeserved praise heaped upon it. But hey if it does it for you more power to you. Just don't talk about it's "power" in front of me, I may puke.
Really, after all this time, why write about Shawshank now? Well, simply, it's still the best movie I've ever watched.... 10 times. This is a movie that from start to finish keeps you engaged like no other film. When it concludes you wonder how a 2 hour plus movie can go by so quickly. No bathroom breaks or snack breaks during this movie, whether it's the first time watching it, or your tenth. Just sat down and watched it again 2 nights ago with my daughter (12). She too never moved from the couch and loved the film. This film will hold up to the test of time because it's simple: great writing, great acting, great directing and watchable over and over.
Shawshank redemption is probably one of the greatest movies out there hands down. Its a story about a banker named Andy Dufresne who is sentenced to life in prison for killing his wife and her secret lover.At first for Andy it seems that life has taken a toll for the worst while he goes through the first initial weeks in Shawshank.Fortunately he befriends a group of the inmates over the course of his time there. Mainly a character named Red who has some push on things that go down in the prison. Red and Andy learn a lot of lessons from each other and become really great friends over their course of time at Shawshank. The dialogue in this movie is not only enticing, but also has a bit of comic relief here and there. To me this movie mainly revolves not only the character development of Andy as a man sent to jail for life, but mainly about the human condition and what it is like to no longer be a free man. Andy's' most important lesson that he learns in Shawshank is that while they can take virtually everything away from you including your pride and your dignity, they can never take your Hope.
I shall be short with no spoilers about the movie.

This is a superb picture. Everything is right, spot on right. Beautiful acting, good camera work and a soundtrack that really helps the movie to that extra level. It is a slow, but not too slow, unraveling story with some nice twists and turns in it, all with a good ending.

Do not expect much comedy and quick action, but a good story.

My recommendation: 10 out of 10 points
There are several amazing movies that are 9 but Shawshank is the only perfect 10 that I've given because it is so rewatchable.



I'm not sure Shawshank Redemption deserves to be considered the best film of all-time, personally I'm not sure I would even have it in the top 50. Regardless, this is still a majestic and thoroughly entertaining movie with an unforgettable finale. The lead performances from both Robbins and Freeman are career-defining and help make the film so memorable.
This film gave me the maximal inspirations and deeply touched my inner heart as I finally knew how to cope with everything when the whole world goes against you, and the way to get over everything when the god unleash the hell on you. For me, I am now facing the greatest challenge ornament my life as I have to conquer all sorts of difficulties to successfully get the good grades in my university

I am not a big fan of Stephen King books. Therefore, it came as a complete surprise that this compelling story was written by the "King of Horror" himself. Never has any other movie entertained in so many different ways. It manages to be disturbing and uplifting, both funny and moving. Morgan Freeman is top notch as usual, and Tim Robbins gives his best performance as lead character Andy Dufresne. If you haven't seen this movie yet, do yourself a favour and buy it from your local video store. You won't regret it.
Wish I could go back in time and see it for the first time again, because the story moved me deeply. Fantastic movie all the way through, not a single issue to report here.
The difference between this story about prison in the middle of the 20th Century and any other movie is just about everything. From the great acting of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman to the outstanding directing, this movie just makes the viewer feel as if they spent their time doing something worthwhile. The ending of the movie makes the movie, but without all of the other parts leading up to the finale, there would be nothing as well. Almost every scene in this has a point and a reason. Watching others view this movie for the first time, I've noticed that the interest is usual only at an average level during the first third of the film, but as the viewer is drawn in, they soon can't take their eyes off of it. Only the best of movies will have all of these qualities, and with it being a happy, successful story in the end, few can deny its greatness.
I usually hate popular movies(pulp fiction, titanic, forest gump). So I was very sceptical when I sat down to watch the currently 4th ranked movie on the imdb. What can i say, I agree, this movie gets a 10, while some things are hard to believe(his escape) the range of this movie makes it easy to ignore. There is a lot of depth here. You get to see all the characters grow and age, you really get drawn in to the plot. It shows how brutal prison can be. And how dependent on the system one can become. Another minor thing I didn't like was how after "The Sisters" leader was beaten and transfered the prison seem to be a utopia except for the guards. There should have been at least a little inmate-to-inmate brutality shown.

A great addition to your DVD collection.
I watched this film several times and I am fascinated with it today as I was then when I watched it. Everything is top of the line. Acting, plot, camera, everything.

Plot involving jail in 1940s is really an interesting plot and characters are really colorful. I think that was one of the films when Morgan Freeman came to fame. Other actors are fantastic too. This story is timeless and it will probably be watched many times over and over again by many people in the future.

However, I am not sure that it deserves to be number one on IMDb top 250 films of all times. I would put Schindler*s list there rather then this film. But that is just me.

Darabonts film about an innocent banker and his troubles inside a maximum security prison with a tough warden (Gunton). Andy (robbins) befriends an inmate whose friendship gives him hope and is the backbone of the film, Morgan Freeman plays this role superbly in what i think is the actor's best performance of all time. This is Freeman's film, though Robbins is great in the lead and Gunton is a hell of an antagonist. Everything about this film is perfect, so i can completely see why its the 3rd best film of all time on IMDb. I am a big fan and have watched it 5 times and wouldn't mind on seeing it again later down the line. IMDb Rating: 9.2 MY Rating: 10/10
Thank you Tim Robbins, you are the only reason I could sit through this long winded tale of garbage. As far as prison movies go, this suffers from an identity crisis is. Tries to do too much by not actually doing anything at all story wise. Watch Cool Hand Luke instead
I think if u see this movie first time, surely you will fall in love with this movie. Excellent work... ðŸ‘Œ
This is such a good movie, that even to this day, many years after it came out, I still cannot find a single person who does not like Shawshank redemption.

Everything in this film is timed well. The story is excellent and flows with perfect timing and the editing between the sequences are great. The acting is great, and it keeps you interested from the first to the last frame. It also has a very clever plot. You are not 100% sure what Tim Robbins is up to and how he has escaped until much later.

Great job by everyone from director, actors to script. Just the best in movie making.



Really this film is simply a string of cliches and is mediocre in every way.
How many ways can I list why this is best movie of all time?

1. The most perfect ending of any movie I've ever seen. 2. Best story - Steven King (not even a fan of his) 3. Best acting performance: Morgan Freeman, absolutely

amazing, best ever (Tim Robbins is brilliant also) 4. Best narration - Morgan Freeman's character 5. Most uplifting, touching, moving story ever told. 6. Outstanding soundtrack 7. Beautiful cinematography. 8. Most evil antagonist - The warden 9. Best dialogue - so many memorable phrases and quotes!

I could keep going. I've never encountered a movie that has touched so many people.
Absolutely the most movie overrated i have seen .. There are movies that deserve this rated and have not been talked about.. As for this movie, it is worth watching, but it does not deserve this rating.
I know that other people's votes shouldn't influence mine, either way--but geez, No.2 of all time? What are the IMDb demographics that create that overblown result?

I thought this was a very entertaining movie, somewhere around 8 points. But the script is kind of sugary and the characters lack the subtlety you would expect in a truly great drama. The ending reminded me of The Great Escape.

There are several good performances that aren't quite able to shake loose the limitations of the script and become stirring.

Cute, but not the greatest prison drama ever. I think there must be a lot of teenagers voting on IMDb.

When I first see it, I am too young to understand all the things the movie what to show us. The film gave me a very different feeling. Hope is a dangerous thing, is the root of mental distress. Because since come in the day, the warden said, "the soul to god, the body to me."Except that he can get the cigarettes and naked woman printed CARDS and any other changes I can't seem to grow within the walls of the dark. However Andy told him, "remember, hope is a good thing - and perhaps even good. And no good thing will never disappear." So Andy can use 20 years digging Red think can chisel in tunnel in six hundred.When he finally climbed out of the five hundred yards of the stench of sewage pipes, standing in the pouring rain can't help, we seem to see faith Pierce heavy darkness, played a luminous in the dark of the night out of the blue.Under the light, the soul of our weak under Andy with open arms in the sky in succession, and shaking.
The Story is too complicated Waiting to another season too maybe *Hear broken* .
What is there to say about this movie, except it is a triumph in film making. First of all anything narrated by Morgan Freeman you know is going to be a great movie. A story of a life behind bars with no end, this ordinary man turns Shawshank prison up side down. I think the fact that this movie is so simple is also the reason it is so great. There is no complicated cinematic techniques or special effects, just men talking to each other. Tim Robbins shows us that the good guys can win even when their livelihood has been taken away. Its the kind of movie that just makes you smile on the inside and lets you appreciate the simple things even if just for that day. The Shawshank Redemption is definitely a movie everyone should see, only if just to brighten your day. But I think in the future it will prove to be an important mark in cinematic history.
Awesome movie, Based on the Stephen King novel, Shawshank Redemption is a delight from first scene to last. The opening is a brilliantly done sequence with Andy's (Tim Robbins) trial inter cut with his actions on the night of his crime.

Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a man convicted of double murder who is sent to jail, eventually befriending other lifers including Morgan Freeman's Ellis Redding. Exceptionally handsome adaptation of Stephen King's short story "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption" (in the film version, it's really Raquel Welch, not Rita, who aids in the ultimate twist). On the surface, it's another prison-genre picture with the usual stereotypes such as a rotten warden, a cruel guard, a few homosexuals, and a quirky old-timer who doesn't want his parole. However, the film's emotions run surprisingly deep, justice is well served by the conclusion, and several of the cast members carve out amazing, three- dimensional characterizations.
This is a movie to be watched over and over. Each time I get a little bit more out of it. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins have a great chemistry together. Many people do not realize that this movie was based on a Stephen King (one of my favorite authors) novel, "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption", especially since it is not of the horror/sci-fi genre. I was really glad to see this one at the top of the list.
I have always loved movies in which to overcome odds, a character must think, and not just use muscle. The Shawshank Redemption is one of, if not, the best example of this!!! I LOVE IT!
Seriously, if ever there's a film that people should be forced to watch, it's this. The acting in it is truly perfect, the storyline in very, very well written and the ending is one of the cleverest (and most misleading) endings I have ever witnessed. This film can (and will) be enjoyed by people of all ages (relatively - check parents guide for suitability), and will keep you in suspense for the full duration. Unlike in most other Hollywood films, the twists in the storyline are very well executed and it is in no ways cheesy or cheap. Morgan Freeman gives the performance of his life without making his fellow actors over-act. The Shawshank Redemption blows every other prison dramas out of the water. See it at all costs.
Well as the other more than 2000 review say it, in my opinion this is the best movie created so far. It basically just how life is: you get punched in a face time to time, but you have to stand up, keep your hope and give value to your fellows, because in return life takes care about your reward. Oh yes, and if you face any evil that you can stop, do it. This is the message of the film, if we follow it, life may be as rewarding ultimately for us as for the hero. Other films that moved me like this: Forrest Gump, The curious case of Benjamin Button. IMDb says I have to write another line in order for them to post my review so here it is xD
Touching, moving, exceptional in every single aspect of it. Grear movie and great actors. It fullfills your expectations completely, I just want to watch more of Morgan Freeman movies right now LOL Touching, moving, exceptional in every single aspect of it. Grear movie and great actors. It fullfills your expectations completely, I just want to watch more of Morgan Freeman movies right now LOL. Touching, moving, exceptional in every single aspect of it. Grear movie and great actors. It fullfills your expectations completely, I just want to watch more of Morgan Freeman movies right now LOL.
'94...the year the greatest movie to exist on this site was created...to bad you movie-goers disagree. Godfather Part I is a classic, but get real you can't defy this movie. It may get slow at points but it overcomes that with amazing cleverness and a few tricks up the director's sleeve. If you see or have seen this movie you will find or know that this movies brings out many surprises.
As I was saying just amazing, it makes you laugh, cry and even shout
This movie is good, there's no question about that, but he 2nd best ever? That's a bit of a stretch. I can't really imagine that all of those people who gave this movie the 9 and 10 votes have seen very many other good movies. Sure, the story is meaningful and it's harsh etc, but there are so many movies that are moving and powerful. The fact that Shawshank is #2 on this list is a reflection of those voting.
Firstly, I cant belive that its been 25 years since its release. The script and direction are faultless, the cast are superb and its just a wonderful watch. I'm not going to spoil any of it but suffice to say if you havn't seen it by now, then please do, you will not be disappointed.
I watched this movie for the umpteenth time probably last Sunday and how much I loved it yet again!!! A movie I would never ever get bored of and definitely, one of my all time favorites. A simple yet wonderful story about HOPE!!! HOPE â€“ One word that drives all of us and gives us reason to live. We push ourselves through our mundane lives in the hope of achieving / finding something that we dream of. In the words of this movie's protagonist â€“ "hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies"!!! Superlative performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.

A must watch if you haven't!!!
An inspirational and warm-hearted movie that almost put me to tears at the end. This is one of those rare movies that gets better and better the more times you watch it. The great lines in this movie just made it that much better. The friendship that was portrayed by the main characters Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were totally convincing. It's such an involving movie that grabbed me from the start, and the great music didn't hurt either. Don't miss this powerful prison drama that shows that "hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things."
We have all see movies, comedies, action and dramas. We all liked ones, hated others, got into some other even and felt like part of it. In Shawshank Redemption; you start slowly, after a while you get attached, by the time you reach the middle of the movie you simply totally forget about anything outside the screen and feel a mixed stream of emotions going through you head before anything else! then comes a last 20 minutes of heart storming that is surely enough to raise the adrenaline to extreme levels even in diabetics! I felt warm, strong, happy and all other emotions one can think of, I felt I was the one who won, who got out of prison, i was simply fully satisfied.

This movie must be used as an Anti-depression by therapists! this movie proves that Oscars are either money bought gifts! or that who ever in charge of them are so smart that they couldn't give any Oscar to The Shawshank Redemption knowing that the movie is on different - much higher- rating scale than the Oscars.. it's simply over qualified!
This movie is one of those ones that makes you think really deep about life, your life! Morgan Freeman makes us feel the sadness and Tim Robbins, the faith, in a dark atmosphere.

Believe me when I say this is the best movie I have ever seen.and I have seen anime's,movies but there is nothing like Shawshank redemption.this movie is pure gold.best movie there is and there ever will be.it stars Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. Amazing acting by these two.wonderful story and just amazing movie.words are not enough to tell I great this movie is.its just flows with you.
This movie is the best drama movie I have ever seen in my whole life, it is honestly worth watching.

This bloated and soggy piece of work is so far from earning a number 2 spot on the IMDb that I have to imagine that Stephen King has bought votes for it. Trite , mawkish, shallow, unconvincing, ugly... How much more can I say about its awfulness? Morgan Freeman is tolerable, Tim Robbins is not. There is a romantic glow to the cinematography that is really inappropriate if the main characters are heterosexual. If they aren't there is an unexplored subtext poisoning the base of the movie. There is nothing else about this movie that makes a lick of sense: emotional, dramatic, logical, racial, penological. Rips off the Count of Monte Cristo and Huckleberry Finn and cheapens and flattens them. Its appeal escapes me utterly. For the love of God, sink this film!

This movie is probably my number one movie of all time. Everytime I watch it, I feel like I'm watching it for the first time again. This movie shows friendship, determination, and hope (the main theme of this movie). I could go on and on about how amazing this movie is, but I encourage you to see it for yourself and the beauty of it. You won't regret, definitely buy it!
It gets better the original story of Sthepen King. Amazing adaptation.

I would recommend this to anyone! Easy watch, although it might feel lengthy for some.
One of the best films of its type, only bettered by Frank Darabont's other period prison drama based on a Stephen King story "The Green Mile". Mr Darabont and Mr King appear to have hit on the perfect partnership, in making fantastic films based in prisons and set in days gone by. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are both excellent in this movie, although Mr Freeman is always excellent (especially in his high school drama "Lean on me"). Well done to all concerned in this excellent production, and let's hope that Mr Darabont and Mr King continue in this successful vein for the future
This title has to be one of the greatest films ever made. It is a touching story of a man who is sent to prison for life for the accused murdering of his wife and her lover. The story is so captivating and completely differs from other prison films because of its heart.

A defiant masterpiece which makes you enthralled within it from the very beginning. Brilliantly acted by Tim Robbins and, of course, Morgan Freeman as always. Brilliantly directed, scripted and the original score was very, very good.

I have watched it three times in the last year and I still can't get enough of it. A defiant worth wile watch.
O.K. you've seen the summary and you're screaming "What kind of sour limey b@!*&%$Â£ says that about one of the greatest films ever made?" Well I've got news for you, look again. The Shawshank Redemption is a very good movie, i agree but is it all it's cracked up to be? - no. At first you think "I feel great - what a feel-good movie!" One can't help wondering that this film, on closer inspection, is actually unbelievably cheesy. Every other second i was hearing violins about how this poor guy got landed in jail for a murder he didn't commit. It's stereotypical - and you guys who voted 10 bought it hook, line and sinker. "But what about the great twist?" O.k., the twist was good but come on...like i said before was it THAT great? Ask yourselves honestly, was that better than The Sixth Sense's or The Usual Suspects? Also, how come foreign films which are far superior to this get no credit? Watch Le Samurai, or La Haine or Todo Sobre Mi Madre. Far more superior.

Shawshank redemption is one of the greatest classic movie ever watched by most. If you are Hollywood fan, you must watch this. Because if you skipped this, you will be missed greatest movie experience.
This is the best emotional roller coaster you could ever watch
What I can say is this is a really great movie. It tells use there exists brightness in the darkness and never gives up hope. You will succeed in the end. And also be ready at any time.

Maybe it is because of language problem, I don't grasp it very well in the beginning. But step by step, I understand it. And in the end, I understand it and especially the result is out of my expectation that doesn't happened in the movies I have ever seen in the past.

And also the performance skill is another thing I like it. They are good actors. And this is the movies that seldom take man-women sensation as topic, but still give people good feelings.

Great movie encourage you while entertaining you!
It is a beautiful film witha a good intention. The celebration of friendship, celebration of life are the key points. Top notch acting and direction. It is a great piece of art.
The movie had plot up the wazoo! The acting was superb. Robbins and Freeman were at their highest in this movie. There were so many emotions flying through it and there was so much about the human mind. It will leave you in awe.
I just visited a prison museum in north China, which was a real prison used in early 1900s. This movie reminds me of horrible dark room, sodomy, and brutal corporal punishment that actually can happen to you in the jail.

Whether you are innocent or not, once you are IN the jail. You are all the same. Your are finished. But, Andy Dufresne(Tim Robbins) is not. With hope and his persistence, he escaped from jail after 20 years. Imagine to dig a big cement hole with the small stone hatchet! Amazing.

Where there is a will, there is a way. This movie is encouraging.
There are a very few movies that make you think ,think about the things that are important in life, things that truly matter and The Shawshank Redemption is surely one of those movies. It teaches you that life will put you in situations which you must not have imagined yourself to be in ever and how you can survive those situations. You will learn something new every time you watch it.

The Shawshank has one of the greatest messages of all time. Hope. Hope is the idea of believing in yourself or others. It helps you get motivated and helps you persevere. You see Andy dufrine getting wrongly accused and going to prison there he meets his mates and learns each and every one of them he studies the people the ward. at the end a miracle happens I'll try not spoil it. Overall I've seening this movie as a 13 year old really helps your mind. Too many teenagers are being depressed every single day. I want to tell them hey see this movie it will help you. Oh well no one likes my movie taste.
It's really amazing movie but it doesnt deserve to be on the top of the list

This movie is the greatest movie ever made and has the greatest actors ever Iike Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins and this movie has everything it has friendship hope sadness and a twist ending whoever says they don't like this movie should never watch another movie again.
After watching this movie i was stunned at how great it was. It was the first movie that kept me hooked the whole way through and had everything in it. What made it better was seeing how it was expanded so well from the original short story, which again was very good. How anyone can say it less, must not have been watching it properly. There is nothing to say to criticise the movie, the acting was brilliant, the casting great, and the directing, breath taking. But we can not overlook the great writer who brought this story to life, Steven King. Without having writers like him, we would never have any movies to match up to the likes of Shawshank and Godfather. I am still waiting for another movie to knock it off the top of my top 10 list, however, i am doubtful if this will ever happen.
I cant believe that something so simply good exists. This is by far the best thing i have ever watched on my TV. I loved every piece of it and i'm gonna watch it once a year till my time on this world is over. I can't describe the feeling and joy you will have after watching it, because i can't find the right words to describe it. Watch it and you will see what i mean. The first time is always the best. It's the time when it will leave you speechless for a couple of seconds. And after those seconds you will begin to understand that you just watched a masterpiece. What i liked the most is the big time span in which the movie plays. All those years in one place and the dependence for some people after you leave it.

I am so pleased to see the high rating this movie has received. Many people I know have never heard of it, but when I tell them about it and they rent it, they are 'converted'!! Compared to so many recent movies that are eye-candy, this film delivers the true meaning of friendship and focuses on this aspect instead of flasy cars, lasers, dumb plots and high paid actors bloated with self confidence.

Another movie along the same line is "Spitfire Grill". Rent it and you will probably enjoy it as much.
I really like this movie. It was very well done and the screen play was great. Totally awesome plot and the best acting I have ever saw. I would recommend this movie to anyone. It was a movie to die for. You could tell that they put time and efffort into making this masterpiece.
Stephen King was surely pleased to see one of his works faithfully represented on-screen. The director does an excellent job of showing the bleakness of prison life, the frustration of a life gone awry, and the misery of losing all one holds dear in life, while somehow preserving the hope of better things to come. Every actor was perfectly cast and the story-line draws to a perfect and satisfying close. If you enjoyed the film, you'll love the book from whence it came; "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption".
"I have been thinking for a while to watch " Shawshank Redemption"(1993) the number one movie on IMDb list 9.2/10,finally did it, its a excellent example of good story telling ,one of the story that makes u think and touches your soul, this movie is all about hope ,hope in bad times & not letting it go whatever is the situation ,hope that one day u will have your laugh,hope to be loved again,hope to achieve something big,hope to breath free. Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins)not only was hopeful for himself in the his bad time but made his prison mates hopeful by providing them feel of freedom through books and music,he also gave his best prison mate Red (Morgan Freeman) reason to live once he made it out from the prison. and as Tim Robbins says "hope is one of the good things and good things never dies".
The Shawshank Redemption is a cinematic masterpiece. Firstly, its setting. The opening aerial shots of the prison are a total eye-opener. This is an amazing piece of architecture, strong and Gothic in design. Immediately, the prison becomes a character. It casts its shadow over most of the film, its tall stone walls stretching above every shot. It towers over the men it contains, blotting out all memories of the outside world. Only Andy (Robbins) holds onto hope. Andy Defrain escapes from prison by digging a hole in the wall that is hidden under the poster of the model. Warden and Brookes commit suicide and Baron gets sent to jail. Lastly, morgan freemans character is set free.
This film ranks second among my all time favourites. The only reason it does not hold that coveted first place spot is that I am obsessed with Monty Python's "The Holy Grail". Shawshank is a beautifully crafted film, with one of the best endings I have ever seen; even though in a way it is not entirely unexpected. It is particularly enlivened by the presence of Morgan Freeman, who should have won an Oscar for his voice-overs alone. In a word, Exceptional.
No matter what it is, hope cannot be closed. Everything is caused by hope. Is it because of the inner hope that countless hard work, hard work, and unrelenting returns? With hope, Shawshank Prison is nothing but a hope. With a hope, a small hammer can redeem life, redeem freedom, and even Shark Castle (Shawshank Prison).
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.
We watch this when its on tv but i notice where they take out certain words so if you see it watch it on dvd! This is one of those movies that make you feel like you live with the characters and that's why the end is so redeeming to watch.
I use this movie in my Interpersonal Communication course. The relationship between Red and Andy provides rich examples for my students to look for as they write on important issues of Interpersonal Communication such as the symbolic nature of language, powerful and powerless speech, posture, intimate and social distances, territory, chronemics, various types of listening, and self disclosure. Many "young" students struggle to relate "in-class/in-text" examples to their own lives, and I use this movie to give the class a common experience to discuss and better understand the foundational elements of Interpersonal Communication. ALWAYS a good experience for my students!
Don't even bother reading any reviews this movie needs no introduction. Watch it and then regret it because no movie will EVER come close to how exquisite shawshank is. Please show this to the next generation when appropriate as its truly groundbreaking. (Or should I say wall...)
This movie is the perfect balance of class, beautiful directing and feel-good ending.
Don't get me wrong - I liked this movie just fine, I just don't understand how it deserves the *heaps* of rapturous praise it regularly receives from IMDb members, and the fact that is has been ranked at #2 in the hallowed IMDb Top 250 for the past 8 years or so just baffles me. It was certainly entertaining enough, and very well-acted, but also way over-long, and filled with the usual stock characters that seem to inhabit every prison drama (if Hollywood movies are to be believed, prison wardens are mainly just nasty SOB's and the inmates are just the best bunch of guys you'd ever want to meet). I'd recommend the movie as a good renter, but I guess I can't see it as any more than that. I realize I am way in the minority on this, however.

Many reviews talk about how they don't have words that can describe this movie. I have the perfect word: vanilla This movie is the Toyota Camry of movies. Pleasant, but bland. It doesn't take any risks, just plays it safe and the result is a pleasant experience, but not a satisfying one. I would have liked to see more risks taken. How about some ground-breaking cinematography? What if some of the characters pushed the envelope a little further? Far enough to be accused of overacting by some? How about a parallel story? How about SEVERAL parallel stories? What about moving the story at a faster pace? The beginning of the movie was really quite slow...There is no reason this movie should be more than 2 hours. I give it only a 7 out of 10 for breaking no new ground. I think this movie fails to distinguish itself in my memory.


Sure it was a good prison movie, and much better than many other movies I've seen. But this does NOT beat Godfather, Star Wars, or Casablanca in any way. Watch this if you enjoy good performances and good plot, but don't expect a present-day classic ala Forrest Gump.
Just watch it....one of the finest movie ever made.
Trust me this one of the movie that u must be watched before dead. I really love the story. Thanks for stephen king!!! Good acting too. Everything about this movie so good. In fact from me this rating movie should be 9,8 :)
I won't repeat the ravings by others about this Movie (yes, that's a capitalized M!) I'll just share with you my experience watching it on CNN last month. I'm a graduate student, and midterm week was approaching. I constantly said to myself: Ok, I'll go to the library at the next commercial break ... but without me knowing it my butt was glued to the seat after the first 5 minutes... and by and by I forgot I was watching a film. Finally when it was over I was left tearful and speechless. It was that powerful an experience. I even feel that my life is enriched so much more after watching the film. Those 3 hours are worth every second of it, I can tell you that!
Whenever I talk about this movie with my friends, I do not even refer to it by title, but rather as "The Movie". When I say "The Movie", my friends know exactly what I'm talking about. In fact the main reason that me and my friends don't refer to it by title is because this movie is so great, that we do not feel worthy enough to say it's name in vain! I still remember the first time I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Some friends of mine and I went to see it at one of those "Budget Theaters" over the summer of 1995. None of us really knew anything about the movie, but we had heard that it was pretty good. So, not having any real expectations, we saw it. When the final credits rolled and the lights came on in the theater, all of us just sat there with our jaws hanging down on the floor. I turned my head towards my friend Bob and said "That was the greatest movie I have ever seen in my entire life!" There's really no other way I can put it in words. Every
It's just perfect movie.

Subject, details, and engagement.

Describes the struggle of a human being a character who confronts injustice.
One of the most creative and satisfying cinematic endings. I don't know anyone who was not touched by this movie.

The story of two men, Andy Dufresne and Red, takes place inside the confined prison walls. Their growing friendship develops into a close bond.

With the desparation of prison life, the story takes a turn for the better at the end.
"The Shawshank Redemption" has so much skill which went into the production that it is regrettable that it's overlength undermines its attributes. Episodic, slack and slow formatting stretch the narrative far beyond what its material requires. The result is a fair film, with some worthy touches.
For once a movie that features a story we want to follow, character development, marvelous acting and an ending that is original and empowering.

This film deserves all the accolades.

How soon will Hollywood be shooting the gender switch version (LMFAO!!!)?

This is the kind of bad that I'll still watch after 30 years.

This is a fantastic film. It's well-crafted, the acting is excellent, and the cast members are endearing (or, in the case of the pigs, repulsive).
This, for me, is film at it's best. The acting, (Tim Robbins, in particular, is amazing. Morgan Freeman is his usual wonderful self also.) the screenplay, the production, the...well, all of it! I could rave about it until I'm blue in the face, but I'll spare you (and myself) that.

I must have watched it over a dozen times now, and with every viewing I still get as caught up in it as I did the first time I saw it. For me, that's one of the marks of a special film. I'm don't really want to use the term 'uplifting' yet again, but it is the best way to describe it.

Highly recommended.
Bill's and Morgan's brilliant performances coupled with an immersive scenario and production makes this movie one of the all time legends.
The only thing that amazes me about this movie is that it is not only within 500 top movies in IMDB but actually #2 and soon perhaps #1...

I only saw Shawshank Redemption once, and have not been able to force myself to watch it in full length ever since. It was ok to see it once even though I was almost bored then, but not quite. I found it very average in every respect, and quite predictable. I guess that this is one of those movies that is so average that it does not bother anybody by invoking powerful emotions, thoughts or memories, and does not have any obviously bad technical quality. Just sooo average. Hence the high score?
Very few movies that made me cry ... and (The Shawshank Redemption) is certainly one of them. I remember when I first went to see this movie in my freshman year in college. The movie made me appreciate freedom and true friendship.

Very powerful picture indeed and each actor deserved an Oscar for their great performance. It is sad that the movie did not get the true scale of recognition it deserved, but being on the IMDb top 250 movies of all time based on people's votes is a great way to show the well earned appreciation.

If you did not watch this movie yet, then you missed a lot!

The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that will really never ever be forgotten. Arguably the best movie of all time. A thundering reassurance in the hope for a better tomorrow, this movie is truly an epitome of hope and perseverance. Probably should be filed under the category of movies you should watch anyhow before you die. True masterpiece. There won't be another movie that can be quite anything like this.

This movie is so powerful that I can't even describe this in a few words. This is the kind of movie that rekindles hopes in all of us. The kind of movie that will always keep moving and impressing generations to come. With a storyline that not only will blow you away, but also strengthen your hopes and faith in the fact that "Hope is a good thing. Maybe the best of things. And no good thing ever dies".
Good cast. Good story. The performances were excellent and there was both ample food for thought, and some very good scenes. Didn't hurt that i'm a big Morgan Freeman fan. Always top notch.

On the other hand, overall, the whole film was far too unpleasant, preachy, and downright repugnant, to be terribly enjoyable. When the payoff at the end finally arrived, it just wasn't grand enough to overcome the feeling i'd just crawled through the sewer.

And for this to be the #1 film on IMDb (actually second, but same score as #1 and with more votes) among far superior films like "The Godfather", "Schindler's List", "Lord of the Rings", and "Casablanca", is ludicrous. This would never even have entered the remotest regions of my mind if somebody had asked me to name some really great films.
If there's one surefire movie every person can agree on, it's the shawshank redemption. while it was originally a novel, it evolved into what the IMDb considers the best movie of all time, ranking #1 in the IMDb top 250.

Young man Andy Dufresne is framed and cast into Shawshank Prison, The 2nd worst prison in all of America (number one being Alcatraz) While being in the prison, he's sexually molested by insane inmates, Beat up by Heartless and immoral guards, and his experience as a banker taken advantage of by the warden. But through it all, Andy manages to keep hope through a fear that keeps all of his fellow inmates Prisoners.

All i can say is, Watch this film.

10/10

This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared it long lost in a dark sea of clichÃ©s and predictability. Darabont shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and production facilities. These artists show their capability to produce art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life and the world around you. The Shawshank Redemption delivers much-needed breath of fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of film. It proves that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and still bless us with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget.These artists show their capability to produce art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life and the world around you...
I've seen this film many times before , and every time I watch it it just seems to get better! There really is nothing bad I have to say about this film , because the overlying message of the film is infinite , and it's just such a timeless classic . I can't imagine the movie without Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman in their respective roles so bravo to them , because ultimately these two characters are the heart of the story. While there are some scenes that truly stand out to me , you just need to do yourself a favour a watch this amazing film. It's one of the best of all time and I can promise you that you will enjoy it !

There is no reason for this movie to be above Citizen Kane, Godfather 2, etc. It is a good enjoyable movie yes. But it is also cheesy at times and a little bit pretentious. I believe what works for this movie is that it has a sort of "everyman" charm to it. It is a movie that an entire family can sit and watch and enjoy. Yet, if one digs deeper into it, those that know movies should be able to see its weaknesses. Its dialogue for one is not very strong. The performances are solid, but I believe I have seen Morgan Freeman do this role better many times before. Is this a better prison movie than say... "Murder in the First"? Probably, but is it sooo much better that this film deserves to be number 2 all time. THink about that... the second best film EVER. Somehow I doubt that.
Acted out perfectly by every cast member, under the watchful eye of Frank Darabont, the story of a man who brings hope to the grey walls of Shawshank prison becomes so much more than a prison movie. The first time I ever saw "The Shawshank Redemption", I knew nothing about it, and was utterly unprepared for it's effect. Within the first ten minutes, I was utterly drawn in, unable to pull my eyes away from the screen. By the end of the first hour, I couldn't even think about pausing or stopping this film. I spent the last fifteen minutes crying my eyes out at the sheer emotion in those minutes. Morgan Freeman out-does his every role previous and every role since as Red, while Tim Robbins, quiet and intense, leads the cast as Andy. This film been regarded for more than fifteen years as one of the greatest to ever emerge from cinema. It is a story of corruption, and of justice. A story of imprisonment and of freedom. A story of despair and of hope. More even, than all of that, "Shawshank" is a story of humanity, and one that will stay with whomever watches it for a very, very, long time.
When I watched Shawshank Redemption at first,I had been in the high school and this film left a good impression with me, I say that I learned how to follow your passions and hopes, how to struggle to be free. And " don't never forget,hope is good something and good somethings never die " this sentence which passes in the film, I always believe it every part of mine. Because A person lives with his or her hopes and passions so, If it is seized from people,that people lose their aims in the life. And what the best properties of this film, It shows that hopes and passions are indispensable for people...In addition to my review about Shawshank Redemption, Whenever I watch this film, I learn that it puts in new things my life. It is so important for every watcher, Shawshank Redemption should be watched and I advise it to you :)
this film is simply brilliant. the characters are all totally awesome and so are the actors who play them! also when watching this amazing film, you don't think to pick up on the little things until it all becomes clear! it truly is one of the best films that i have ever seen along side requiem for a dream and the lord of the rings trilogy. it is that good that when watching it, you forget that it is a film because you get so into the story and so in love with all of the characters. the men/women who wrote the script for this outstanding movie sensation is exceeding talented, as are all of the people involved in this production and they should all be proud of themselves for producing one of the top three greatest films of all time.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest movies I have seen in sometime. The first time I saw it was in my Film & Literature class and I loved it from start to finish. It keeps you thinking and even if you read the novella, there is changes to it. There are many foreshadowing in it that could help you figure out what's happening later in the story and overall. Many film fans should check it out and even later buy it if you want. The film also has many likable characters as well and you'll have some of those funny moments (but not a lot). It's a movie that you'll watch again and again.

Stars: Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, Clancy Brown, William Sadler, Mark Rolston. Year: 1994
After reading all the rave reviews for this movie, it turned out to be a real disappointment. Can anyone really believe that the prisoners are honourable men while the guards and warden are all "crooks"?? Haven't we overdone the hypocritical "Bible thumper"?? -- let's find a more enlightened characterization. James Bond, himself, could not have followed the main character's escape plan. The ending soliloquy and denouement were inferior plagiarisms from "Cool Hand Luke". Enough!!! Unfortunately, fine performances by both Robbins and Freeman were wasted in this "fantasy" story.

I don't dislike this movie, I think it's fine. Certainly it's not number 1, not even top 100. The movie becomes pretty stale mid way through and let's be honest there's absolutely nothing original about it.

What I dislike most about this movie is the typically boring people who say it's their favourite for no other reason other than it's what they think people want to hear. Thus making them appear less boring.

1 star because it needs knocking down a peg or 5.
In these times, where an "Every man for himself" mentality prevails and one's self worth is measured by possessions, this movie reminds us that the escalating fear that we all have, as this country spirals out of control, is best abated by having someone you can call a true friend.

As time passes and, more of us see that this country is heading inexorably toward social, political and economic disaster, this movie will find an even larger audience of devotees. Perhaps, one day, we will abandon our materialism and discover that true hope which we will desperately need and, a major theme of this movie, lies in our relationships with others. Until then, we will have the Shawshank Redemption to remind us what real friendship looks like.
Not for a reason. But for the fine art to create a story who seems be more than fiction and who use a script, a cast and location for a puzzle who becomes part of precious memories. Its themes, the tension, the moral questions, the meeting between Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins and the result of dialogs who are truth axis of movie and wise adaptation, are bones of a splendid film. A film who reminds more than presents. Values, roots of justice, beauty of original source, the end who is expression of a deep expectation of the viewer are elements who transforms The Shawshank Redemption in an experience for the viewer. Short - a film who must see!
This is an outstanding movie from beginning to end. The cast was picked with excellence and the characters were made so that the audience would care about them. Even though the middle of the story was a bit slow, it began to drag when it started building up the plot for the climax in the middle. Stephen King does not usually write novels as a drama and when he does do it, it is critically acclaimed. It is amazing how much though was put into making this story, with the back tracking to reveal major plot points and how this happened. Morgan Freeman's narration is excellent in this movie too, his character is one you won't forget because of how strong his performance is. Over all this is a fantastic movie. If you haven't see this yet I recommend you do, this movie is one you won't want to forget.
Is there anyone who does not like this film? If there is, I've never met them. "The Shawshank Redemption" is a film that doesn't sound too interesting when you first hear about it. A banker who protests his innocence after his wife and her lover are killed befriends a group of prisoners and changes everyone's life for the better. It does not sound that great to most people, but when you see this film you will honestly come away loving every frame of it. Tim Robbins is great, Morgan Freeman is greater, and the supporting cast are all perfect. William Sadler, Bob Gunton, Clancy Brown, and Gil Bellows stand out as well. James Whitmore, who has been in acting since the 1940s, gives his best performance as Brooks and should have at least received an Oscar nod. If you haven't seen this film go and see it. I can't think of any movie I'd rather watch on a rainy afternoon, or at anytime for that matter. Frank Darabont, who had been involved in horror films before this, became a big-time name after this film. Unfortunately, "The Green Mile" is nowhere close to comparing to this film which will be remembered forever. A great achievement. 5 stars out of 5.
Worth every minute of it! I didn't expect much from it but Freeman's narration got me hooked quick. The portrayal of friendship is on another level..then it finishes with a powerful punch!
The first time I watched this movie I was immersed in a prison world where survival is on the daily schedule and hope means everything. I was literally breathless for 2 hours. I just cannot believe how this movie was so undervalued when initially released. This is hands down the best movie I have ever seen. This is one movie where the ending does not really matter. It is the journey that will keep you on the edge of your seat and you will wish it never ends.
This is the worlds best movie. Never seen any other beautifull movie than this one. Best acting and story. Must watch movie
This film is hard, exciting, realistic, beautiful and surprising. The Shawshank Redemption completely absorbs you and constantly throws you back and forth between joy and sadness. It simply blew me away, and if it was possible, I would give it 11 without thinking twice.
This is one of the best films I have ever seen in my seventeen years. The movie is highly underrated by film critics, but if you look at imdb's top 250 films you will see it is rated #1. Tim Robbins gives his best performance, he plays a prisoner who is serving time for a crime he didn't commit. I guarantee you, you will enjoy this movie. Check out my other reviews!
The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that you shouldn't miss. The Shawshank Redemption is one of those niche films that only begins to shine after it has crept into your subconsciousness. Although it is a long film, you don't even notice the time passing as you become absorbed by the plot-line and twists therein. It's more than a good film - it's a great film!
Just watch it! if u watch this movie you r gonna get really strong lesson for this life ..
Its literally my favorite movie. I can watch it over and over again. The acting is of course amazing. Ah I simply can't put in words how I feel about this movie. I LOVE IT! In my opinion its a must watch movie! I totally recommend it.

Oh Did I say that I LOVE IT!? Well.... I LOVE IT!!!
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.
Ten Thumbs Up if I had them. Incredible story, incredible cast. I would rate this as probably the best film I have ever seen and I have probably seen it a hundred times on cable. I would have to say this would be Morgan Freemans best performance out of all of his films. There should have been an Oscar for him. This film definitely beat out "Million Dollar Baby" for which he ultimately and finally received his first Oscar. The Academy wasn't all there when "Shawshank" deserved its due. Robbins played a great part in this film and did an excellent job however Freeman carried the film. A true drama that shows the bond of two people in horrible circumstances. Yes, this one is one to own, if you don't have it...buy it. You wont be disappointed.
For the life of me, I can't understand all the gushing about this cornball, sentimental and PHONY movie. There are certainly some strong performances, but they're outweighed by some of the two-dimensional portrayals, weak writing (that opera sequence -- oh, please) and most of all a completely garbage ending (I won't give it away) that stomps on what little credibility the movie has.

I guess you really can't go broke under-estimating people's intelligence.
He's very smart and figures out a lot through the years he's in prison. I'm 12 but I think it's amazing and I definitely think if any parents read this, you should let your kids watch it. There is some suicidal content so I recommend you fast forward through those parts (that part.) 10/10 Recommend 10 and older

I cant understand why this movie got such a high rating. its a good movie but there are lots of others that deserve to be number 2 in the "best of all time list" (american beauty, pulp fiction, Chaplin's, BuÃ±uel's or Kubrick's movies, just to name a few). Well..I'm an old Stephen King fan and the story of "Redemtion" is good and thrilling and the acting and photography is good as well but its nothing that has'nt been made before. don't get me wrong i liked it but i think its just a well made entertaining picture and nothing more.

So watch it and have a good time but don't expect an artistically great work or something all too original.
This was a very good movie. Robbins and Freeman are Terrific. It was a very moving movie. I would strongly recommend this movie.
The best movie I have ever seen in my entire life. This will be a movie that will live on through history.
Absolutely incredible. This movie is a masterpiece and i will keep on watching it till the end of time.
These two did an amazing job together. You don't see this type of story telling between two actors in modern-day movies, let alone an amazing story at this level.
I loved this movie! Beautifully filmed, the story is told as if time does not matter. No plot that has to be rushed through, no fast cars or anything. Just a very good story by Stephen King, marvellous actors and a lot of exciting emotions. It made me feel good to watch a man who keeps his hope for so many years.

The scene with the Mozart-record broke my heart!
The story line is beautiful and the casting expertly done. It one of those movies that you take so much from it that you get to criticize or judge other movies quality and casting based on movies like this one.


Let's be honest, it's a fairly mediocre movie. Entertaining, I'll grant you, but profound? No way. Not much here in terms of innovative or even creative film-making either.

Is it one of the most popular films of all time? Probably. At least of recent time. Is it the greatest film ever made? Don't make me laugh.

That said, I'm glad people can enjoy this movie. I won't watch it again, but I don't exactly regret it.
The movie is just excellent, I really liked the plot of the movie and Akshay Kumar's acting. I'm sure it will be a success, the sensational movie. Super Top!! I recommend!!
If you are looking for a story that is entertaining and just when you think you know the end you realize that this is not the case, this is the right movie, the dialogues are enveloping, the characters complex and immigrant and the relationship between them is intelligent and well managed.
When I saw the rating I couldn't believe it. This is indeed great for kids and parents to watch. Morale is spectacular and the actors are awesome. The best part is it is about the environment and classic cinema would approve. Watch it with your kids and tell me it's not worth it. Loved it and so did my kids!


Best movie ever? Not even close. This is good movie, but there are 1000 good movies. Very few Great movies, and this certainly isn't great.

Like others have pointed out, way overrated.

Don't need to review it, as so many have already done. But I wanted to add another voice to the small group of people that acknowledge that it is getting way too much praise.

This doesn't even come close to both Godfather films.
having this movie in your top ten best films of all time is like saying the greatest pieces of art ever painted are the ones they put on hotel walls. Maybe this is true in a sort of egalitarian, democratic and mind-numbingly banal way. A thoroughly ordinary film, that has been embraced by men who want to cry, have faith, and have equilibrium. Which is nice.
'The Shawshank Redemption (1994)' is easily one of my favourite films of all time (top three material, for sure). It is a true classic that holds the honour of being the highest rated film on IMDb (with a 9.3/10) for good reason. Some scenes will make you laugh, some scenes will make you cry and some scenes will make you do both all at the same time. Each moment will keep you thoroughly entertained and riveted to your seat throughout. It's thanks to well-developed characters and a deeply-effecting story, one that deals with timeless and powerful themes of hope, that this remains such a seminal piece of work. A true masterpiece. 10/10
One of the best films I've ever seen you just have to see it for yourself and you will know why, However if you're a big Sly or Arnold fan, you may not like it as it doesn't have any exploding cars, plus it has a lot of dialogue and some words with more than two syllables
Based on the King short story 'Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption', this Frank Darabont masterpiece has etched itself in the minds of viewers ever since its release as one of the most beloved films of all time. In the beginning of the short story, its alternative title is revealed to us: 'Hope Springs Eternal'. This in essence is the message that the film is trying to convey to the audience, and what a wonderful way it is revealed!
What A Movie..Excelled In Every Aspect..Right From Start To Finish You Will Love How The Movie Goes On..Makes You Cry, Laugh, Anxiety,Tension..Etc.. Each And Every Expression You Can Feel On Your Face. Each And Every Aspect Of The Of The Movie Is Good. Tim Robbins And Morgan Freeman TAKE A BOW. Bob Gun ton IS Also Excellent In His Role. James Whit more Also Gave a Great Performance

The Way Frank Directed The Movie Is AMAZING. He Kept This Movie At a Great Steady Pace Along With The Writing And Great Cinematography.

Each And Every Cast And Crew Did An Excellent Job..

Do Yourself A Favor Go Watch The Movie.
This is a story that keeps on giving right to the end and it is delivered by Robbins and Freeman.

Considering the movie takes place in a prison or perhaps because it does, it is an incredibly uplifting tale of hope, survival and a never give up attitude.

The story as great as it is does come second to the performances of the 2 leads. They create a connection between each other and then the audience that entices you in and holds you close as a viewer.

If Shawshank does one thing it makes you wish that more movies could be made like it.
This is a great movie. It has a great story line. It also has great acting. It is kind of scary at time. It is a great movie. See it. It is one of the best movies ever. There no reason not to like movie. It is a great movie.
this movie is all about that great story King wrote, that with great cinematic expression, great acting, great sub plots, this is a movie you can see many and many times in your life and every single time you see it, it will deliver emotional good feelings...

Andy Dufresne's expression on his face through out the whole movie is incredible, the very old guy with the bird, he's just perfect, i feel like he's my grandpa or something, you just can't help to not love him, his character is the one that really got me emotional... Morgan Freeman is great like in all his films, you just can't think of a better casting... i love this film

i'm not quite sure if it deserves to be #1 on the top 250 IMDb list, but well, you decide... hope you love it as much as i do !

I guess the title of the review speaks for itself so just watch it you'll enjoy it.
Just another review on how good this movie is. The development of the "mystery-scam" was amazing and the plot twists the best in all film land. Performances on point, clever script and well executed story. A must see!!
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a very emotional movie. It takes its time telling its story but it doesn't feel long. It is a great looking movie with a terrific cast. The cast all deliver top-notch performances, especially Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. The last forty minutes of "The Shawshank Redemption" are classic. Writer/director Frank Darabont does a great job mixing violence, cruelty and humanity into a very satisfying watch.
To be brief, as a man who has watched thousands of movies in my life, Shawshank redemption is the best movie I have ever seen. The plot, the way it develops, the acting, the portrayal of every human emotion, and the ending makes 99% of movies seem like just a waste of time. I didn't see it until a few years after it came out. My sister said it was a great movie. It was on HBO, so I watched it. I was speechless. I have always found it strange that it was from a Steven King novel. I've read a few (not that one) and what comes through in the movie doesn't seem like anything that would be in a Steven King novel. A better movie may come along but it may be a while.
10 stars is to little for this film its one of the best of all time and it deserves every praise it have
The Shawshank Redemption is actually a short novel written by Stephen King. Tim Robbins is falsely imprisoned for the murder of his wife. He becomes best friends with Morgan Freeman and plots an escape using a small hammer to slowly create an opening in the wall which is covered with posters.

Freeman narrates the story and he and Robbins make a terrific pair struggling to survive prison life while keeping their sanity. They manage to make it through their days by dreaming of the perfect escape. King has written a tale of hope and inspiration which is adapted with great style and grace by Frank Darabont. He later made King's Green Mile in 1999, another excellent prison drama.


If you want to see hope in its most poetic and dramatic sense, choose The Shawshank Redemption. I commend it to everyone who thinks movies are more than source of 'entertainment',that they are mirrors of life and its moral lessons. I cannot find any other movie with such compelling touch of hope, faith and love. You will understand what redemption is, you will understand what a Fountain of Hope can do, if we let it reign inside of us.

From the production, to the timing, to the script, and the acting of each character, The Shawshank Redemption gave justice to its box-office title. It may have not won Best Picture but for me, it is the Best Picture by far.



A man is sent to prison and has to learn to adapt to prison life,, there he meets a wise old gentleman who he befriends, and there friendship grows immensely. along the way he meets different prison characters, all of which are very likable... adapted from a short short by Steven King,, this is a powerful movie,, showing prison life in the early 20 th century. Tim Robbins was wonderful in this and should have won an award,, Morgan freeman is captivating in his role as "Red" , Our main character, Andy Dufrene plans a prison break and needs the help of several of the inmates.. I wont' say what happens after his attempted prison break,, but this is a touching movie, with a lot of character development, and not much on the action,, but it really doesn't need to have a lot of action,, lot's of humor abound, a movie about growing up in person, and the people that you might, and the life struggles of being in prison,, excellent movie.. but not the greatest of all time,,, I can think of at least 10 better .
One of my all time favorites.It is a very moving story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see this one more than once.

I have three framed posters of my favourite films on my wall. On the left is 'The Dark Knight' and on the right is 'The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King'. These are the best films of their outstanding trilogies and, in my opinion, are the greatest films of my generation. I have watched each countless times because they're filled with action, suspense and tension and also incorporate a sense of overcoming that which seems impossible to overcome.

Then, purely because it was rated highly, I watch a film not of my generation, on a free DVD from the Sunday Times. Without special effects or a large budget, The Shawshank Redemption became my third poster because it exceeds the qualities TDK and ROTK have in abundance.

Each are excellent. Shawshank's better.

This is by far and away one of the best Hollywood films made in a generation. The drama was compelling, the acting was admirable and complimented the story to perfection. The writing was exquisite and placed a balance on leading dialogue and narration. This is a great example of what film making is all about. It doesn't rely heavily on "movie magic," but instead uses camera movement, framing and acting as equal tools in delivering an amazing story to audiences.
This movie... is overrated. It's a great movie, don't get me wrong, but it is NOT the greatest movie ever made. Still, definitely worth a watch.

I saw it a lot of times and I am ready to watch it again everytime. Great actors playing extremly fitting roles and a great story make this movie a go to movie for everyone.
Well now I've finally seen it, and I have to say after the tremendous build up from everyone I've spoken to (IMDB No.2!) etc.. I thought it was ..... OK. I think I would have scored it higher if I'd seen it five years ago but now without nostalgic hindsight it's only a 7!! Shock.. This film is still well worth seeing but the characters are not as well crafted as in 'The Green Mile' nor do they command your compassion (Brooks excepted).

I suppose I'd better see 'Hannibal' SOON!
Perfectly fine yarn, but those who are ranking it among the all-time greatest movies need to see some more flicks. The cliches are pretty heavy at times, and the moral of the story seems to be freedom _isn't_ a mental state, after all.
This has got to be one of my favourite films of all time. I first saw it when it made it to British TV and have only just got round to buying it and i've watched it a few times since then.

The characters have so much depth, you end up loving them the more you watch this film. The acting is first class. The cinematography is first class. The sound is first class. The casting is first class. The dialogue is fantastic. All these elements and more make this a riveting watch and you end up wishing the film could be longer.

This is one of the few times i've seen a film after reading the book thinking the film is an improvement. It seems to me it expands a little on Stephen King's novella.

This film deserves the rating it has here on IMDb


When I seen this movie in Top250, I could not believe it, thought it was a joke. It is probably some boring old movie, maybe even without colors. But I was amazed. Similar to Prison Break series, just older version of it. Adventure, Lesson, Inspiration, Motivation, Insight, Experience, Confidence, Emotions...all in one. Good ending too. It lacks nothing. It teaches us to fight for freedom, and not just ordinary freedom like from prisons or psych wards, but freedom from people, diseases, poor life, anything negative or bad. It gives insight into feeling of being released from some institution for those who have not experienced it.
This movie has been rated number one by IMDb for a reason. Why? What's not to like? It has everything. Crime, drama, romance, some comedy. The writers were very well set on what they wanted. They achieved it. One can watch this movie over and over. Every time I watch, I notice something new that I had not noticed before. This movie is very well written. This movie is very well produced. This movie is very well acted. This movie was very well financed. They did not need to use too much money to produce it however, one would never know. Yes. It's that good. This is definitely a movie that belongs on your shelf or in your movie collection. It's rated number one for a reason. Anyone who rates this below an eight, doesn't really know what a good movie is about. The way it's written, directed, acted, financed, produced and acted. If I had three thumbs, the would all be up. So, three thumbs up. If you've never seen this fantasias film, you're missing out. It's a must have. Enjoy.

Despite its status as a classic, The Shawshank Redemption is not quite a great film, argues Robbie Collin.
"The Shawshank Redemption is a truly solid film with a touching story, dark, sad, brutal, depressing, and inspiring, terrific perfomance by all the cast and incredible story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption is not only tells a story about a man in prison but also tells a story about a man with a great lesson that we as an audience can take and learn, overall The Shawshank Redemption is simply one of the greatest film i've ever watch, i highly recommended"
the Shawshank redemption should be played throughout the world in all schools to teach people the hard life of prison but the bond between friends and the idea of hope. Morgan freeman is a second to none actor he lays the role perfectly and i could not think what the film would be like without him. all the other actors perform perfectly. this movie is a movie of inspiration and one of which will get people through harsh times. this film always restores my faith in mankind i simply love it. I first saw this film sitting on my brothers desk and i was intrigued by the idea of a film set in prison where hope and other morale values were the storyline instead of violence and havoc, this is a amazing film which brings pride to the actors and crew who produced it. the setting of the movie is one of perfection the Gothic grounds and the stunning facilities astound me i'am finding it hard to put in to words how much this film means to me i would say it is one of the greatest film's ever made in my time and i love it.

Best movie ive seen.

This movie 20 years on is still first class.
Fight Club is one of the most unique films I have ever seen. In addition to presenting a rather fresh take on life, FC also presents its material in a fresh way. My main interest in the film is in that, in my opinion, it does not present characters for us to think about. Rather, it presents actions for us to think about. I will say that I cannot recall *ever* having been "asked" by a film to both suspend my disbelief the way this film asks in its third act AND at the same time come to terms with an understanding that there is no room--or need--for disbelief. Fight Club is one of the most unique films I have ever seen. In addition to presenting a rather fresh take on life, FC also presents its material in a fresh way. My main interest in the film is in that, in my opinion, it does not present characters for us to think about. Rather, it presents actions for us to think about. I will say that I cannot recall *ever* having been "asked" by a film to both suspend my disbelief the way this film asks in its third act AND at the same time come to terms with an understanding that there is no room--or need--for disbelief.


My advice would be to watch this movie in full before you judge it. Actually, the movie itself is nothing special, but it has some good stuff. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do, however, drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. The leads' combined talents and charisma have a lot to do with this movie's success. I found the acting to be sensational, the dialogue incredible and the director's abilities to be up to par and then some. It reminds me of some of those Croatian films that were popular back in the 1990s. My final rating comes in at seven out of 10 stars.
Still not as good as Mario Bros 2 best game of the year 70 years in a row
Andy Dufrain? More like Andy Duripoff of Fanboy from the Nickelodeon animated comedy series, Fanboy & Chum Chum
The Shawshark Redemption is very good movie. This is a story that reflect prisons as seen by many prisoner. The Shawshark Redemption also reflect society problems. The plots and actors played very well that make me wanted to continue watch. They are very professional as a director and actor. they capture and identify with America male spirit as it shows in movie. The story is even more interesting seeing red and Andy building a relationship in a prison. Scenes are very good. Overall, this is a fantastic film.Comparing this kind of movie with other type of movie like comedy,I recommended every movie lover to watch this or you will be missing one of the best film.
In my opinion, The Shawshank Redemption is an amazing film in the whole way of action and how we learning from this movie. Shawshank encompasses friendship , hardship , hopes, and dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope.Even though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are going though. These artists show their capability to produce art, real art that in spires you to look at the deeper aspects of life and the world around you.So, Shawshank is the must see movie in your life before you gone.
An absolutely flawless production. From the story to the acting to the way it was filmed and produced, this is a nearly perfect movie. It was like a great novel brought to life. This is a classic and one of the clear top movies of all time.
As i started watching this i was already convinced that i saw the best movie of 1994.And i don't even get why the director to this film Frank Darabont didn't even win or was nominated for the best director Oscar.This film also has 2 of the greatest performances throughout the whole movie which were the Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman performances.Also this movie deserves to be on the IMDb top 250 because this movie will keep you in your seat from start to finish,and those of you people out there who haven't seen this movie i recommend that you have to watch this movie, And has a great premise as well. The movie also has other great performances from James Whitmore,Bob Gunton,and Clancy Brown.
Why talk so much about this movie when the movie already speaks for itself as one of the best film of all time. The movie is too good to be explain by me; you have to see it for yourself.Exceptional.

Max- 9.5/10
The storyline, the links, the twists, everything about this movie made me want to watch it all over again. It is the best movie I've seen by far. I recommend it 100%.
AH TITLE TOLD IT ALL flhslfkehws;egj;wejg;wjgjwpegewgerhgerherhr
I really can't explain why this movie does absolutely nothing for me. It has a great cast that turns in some good performances, and the story is compelling; however, I always feel so empty after I see it. I get a similar vibe from FORREST GUMP and TERMS OF ENDEARMENT, to name a couple others. I can't really figure out why.
The movie depicts how a man can achieve the most incredible feats once sheer will is applied.

The Shawshank Redemption is just an utterly moving motion picture that makes you really have a feel for the characters in this movie. It truly will move you in some sort of way, because it is very deeply emotional at times. Morgan Freeman did an excellent job as always and really put on an amazing role in this movie. Tim Robbins truly stole the show with his Grade A performance. If you have the time to sit through this very long movie, then you should definitely see The Shawnshank Redemption, because it is a motion picture that will make you feel in dept emotions for the characters in the movie, it is by far a classic and one of the best movies of the 90's.
84 years later, a 101-year-old woman named Rose tells the story to her granddaughter Lizzy Calvert, Brock , Lewis

on the about her life set in April 10th 1912, on a ship called Titanic when young Rose boards the departing ship with the upper-class passengers and her mother, Ruth Meanwhile, a drifter and artist named Jack Dawson and his best friend

De Rossi win third-class tickets to the ship in a game. And she explains the whole story from departure until the death of Titanic on its first and last voyage April 15th, 1912 at 2:20 is normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business days. Reviews that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted. Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line between paragraph. n the morning.
I can understand why this film is loved so much, but I can equally understand, although I do not agree, why it is despised. People say it is life affirming, brings hope and happiness, and it does, others say it is sentimental crap, and at times it is. But I've always been a sucker for sentimental movies, ones which have the power to genuinely move the viewer, and not hide under a cheap plot and a tragic death. Being another King adaptation, there is violence, and hardness to counteract the sentimentality, and the prison, although not as horrifying as those seen in Midnight Express and other movies, breaks the human soul to the point that it relies on the prison for survival. Heartbreaking, tear jerking, brutally funny, all phrases used repeatedly to describe this film, all appropriate. A film everyone should love. Great Quotes: Andy. 'I have to remind myself that some birds aren't meant to be caged' 9 out of 10

Gut-wrenching! Beautiful! Intelligent! A masterpiece! The actors are perfect in their roles, I am surprised Tim Robbins didn't rise higher in his stardom than what he actually did after making this movie. The chemistry between him and Morgan Freeman is perfect! Every single character makes sense and seems "real". The dialogues are realistic as well. It portrays the corruption going on within heavily guarded facilities (such as this one) in such a simple, yet brutal way - that despite the crime committed (with a few exceptions of course) it makes you question the justice system and its fairness. I can relate to people I would never have thought I would in real life. I won't say much more about this movie, except tell you to watch it! Even if its not your type of movie, even if you tend to get bored with dramatic tales - anyone can learn something from experiencing watching it! Just be prepared to feel real human emotions. If you don't then something is seriously wrong with you!
My friend asked me that question and I said... TODAY

I saw The Shawshank Redemption today, yes nearly after 14 years it was released and after 26 years of my life on earth... I should have seen it much before, I guess. I am truly moved by the story and more than that by the character roles played by Morgan (Red) and Tim (Andy). I have to admit, this is not one of the greatest, BUT THE GREATEST movie ever produced.

Brooks was there, so was Red... I wish I was also there to see it for real.

This movie gave me new avenues, new thoughts, new energy and more than everything... it gave me what it gave Morgan Freeman... HOPE
This film should be joint along with The Godfather as being the greatest film of all time. The character development and the messages that is conveying is beautifully done. When the messages such as hope, friendship and survival come together, it makes an excellent display.

It consisted of different metaphors when they were drinking the liquor on top the roof, and Morgan Freeman was narrating his thoughts as feeling that they were a free man, this was the best moment of the film and made me how at that time people were living in jails.

Excellent. Prefect. Outstanding film, best jail film I saw in my entire life...10/10 PS watch out for the new drama that came out in the UK... Prison Break on channel five. If you liked Shawshank then you will like this.
What can I say? Probably the best movie of all time. Really well written story with a beginning a middle and an end.

The Shawshank Redemption is a film about life in the American Shawshank prison, where corruption among guards and directors plays a major role. Andy Dufresne, a banker, is sentenced to life for the murder of his wife and her lover. However, he maintains that he was innocent. In Shawshank, after a difficult start, he becomes his fellow prisoners. One of them is Red, the narrator of the story, who is charmed by the huge cleverness of Andy. If Andy asks Red if he can come to a geologist hammer, Red, who has the size of the laundry, will deliver this hammer to Andy. The contact flourishes
Real good movie....but has taken a lot from Papillon (1973)
If you haven`t seen this film, watch it as soon as you can. Maybe you`ve had the chance to do it, but just skipped it because you thought it was one more story in prison. Yes and no! YES because most part of "Shawshank Redemption" happens in a prison, but NO, it's not like the others. It's much better.

The story, you may know more of it in the Plot Outline, is really interesting and the performances are just impossible to forget. There is a little of everything: drama, friendship, violence, love and dream..."Dream of Freedom". That's the title in Portuguese.

My Rate 9/10
This is without a doubt my favorite movie. Every time I see this movie I feel touched by its magic. Most of my friends have seen it because I have recommended them to do it and they have all loved it.

Robbins, Freeman and Whitmore's characters are the ones that I like the most.

It is just stupid, unfair and shameful that this wonderful movie was not awarded neither at The Oscars nor The Golden Globes. The IMBD voters have it at #2. My hope is to see it in the future at #1.
Many years I didn't understand why this film is the top rated on IMDb because I didn't watch it. When I did it I wouldn't have any questions. You watch the film and you believe this story. Wondrous cast did the great work, Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are the best friends at films ever. Actors in supporting roles did their work great too. So this film is really the best in the world.
Three words: "Cool Hand Luke." Same film, done better, done earlier. For that matter, is this film any better than other Steven King "novelettes" such as "Stand By Me"? All in all, it probably ranks a 6 or a 7, but since people on this site have lost their minds as regards this film, I give it a 1 in one man's attempt at sanity.
I have always heard what a great movie it was but never got myself to watch it since I didn't want to watch a prison movie. However, I am so glad I watched it! I was sort-of suicidal when I watched it; and it gave me hope and made my heart warm even when I was at my lowest!
A movie based on a Stephen King book could be great or awful. Thankfully this was amazing.
This is exactly the type of movie the new era cinema need ... Magic!
Wow! All the good reviews about this movie have already been said, saying something else will be repetitive but watched this movie when I was just 11 years old, barely understood the whole plot. This movie just go re-released in 4K today (14/09/2021) and I bought it to add to my digital library collection and after watching it for real this time I'm totally speechless... Just get this movie, no more comments. This is EPICðŸ‘ŒðŸ¾
One of the rare occasions where the movie is as good if not better than the book.
This is one of my favourite films ever. Why? Well a lot of reasons really. But mostly because of the plot. It contains just about everything needed for a film to really work like art. The actors are superb (note: Freeman - why he didn't receive an Oscar for this one, I'll never understand). The story is great, and written by my all time favourite writer - Stephen King (Misery, Dolores Claiborne, The Shining, Carrie and more), which are all among my absolute top films. Try them out. I promise you all several great movie-moments.

Words cannot encompass how great this film was. The acting, plot, and even the soundtrack was absolutely spot on. I'm not exaggerating it, but this film really felt like it transcended past me just enjoying the film to actually feeling the film in my soul. To feel that pit in your stomach, the ache in your heart, to the warmth that spreads throughout your body, I was just left in awe of the marvel before my eyes. Even after the end credits roll, I was lost for words. My curiosity as to why this film is first in IMDb's Top 250 movies list is finally quenched and I leave with a smile on my face and happiness in my heart. Don't think I'll need to say this but I'll definitely recommend this to anyone and everyone. Just know that the better the films you see, the worse the bad ones get.
The Shawshank Redemption is a masterpiece. This is a film that focuses on what happens to people when imprisoned. The different experiences had amongst each character are all representative of what kind of person the character is. This movie has gorgeous cinematography and classic dialogue, this paired with the peaceful yet ominous score make an amazing atmosphere. On top of all these technical marvels you also have one of the best stories ever told. The Shawshank Redemption is truly a work of art.
What a great movie. It's been my fave for years but I never knew just how many other people liked it until I saw that it was ranked #1 on the top 250 list here at IMDB. It may not be the greatest movie ever made but everyone who has seen it liked it. I can't imagine anyone hating this movie. The best part of the whole movie is when Red walks down the beach in Mexico and meets his friend on the boat. You know everything's going to be okay after that.
Oh my God, I no doubt about it, love this movie more than any other I've ever seen!!!!! I mean, the script is just breathtakingly brilliant, and the acting was superb, PERFECT even. I can watch this movie any time of the day, because it never gets old and I never like it less. I am so glad to know that it is highly appreciated on here as well, and it needs to be, this movie KICKS ASS!!!!! If you're a hater, you don't know what a good movie is, and get a life, but if you haven't seen this movie, I HIGHLY, "HIGHLY" recommend you see it right away for you have missed out on something special your entire laugh, and truthfully, that makes me sad. SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION IS TRULY THE BEST MOVIE EVER!!!!!!!!!!!

Good movie but 9 is too extreme, is certainly one of the masterpieces of cinema, but like many Hollywood movies there is some bad things, when the protagonist moves down the sewer pipe, in reality it would be caught bad. A very nice movie that you can refer to the way that each of us must do just to get out of certain problems. After all you put poor grades to great films, especially horror. Hardly comes out of jail in a tunnel of excrement, jail and violence and degradation but you can get out mainly in Italy. However great interpretation of Morgan Freeman, many sentences are historical and should keep in mind. In the movies there must be some humanity in this film there is too much violence
What can i say?...The only film to make a grown man cry! No film comes close to this in any way or form,it draws you in from the start-keeps you there and if your like me..turns you to tears at the very last scene!.Enjoy it because no film will ever be made like this again.
One of the best movie in the world.goldfields gorkhdhanda chekan Sisodiya doshala chelsi.
This film is overrated, it can't possibly be the best film ever, there are much better films than that, however it is still a good film.

No matter how much i talk about this movie i wouldn't give it justice. The movie got nominated for a lot of awards won nothing but the people loved it its been the no. 1 movie of all times by over 2 million people votes the story the direction the actors it's a piece of work, it makes you angry, happy, emotional and inspiration. You should watch if you haven't already
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.

The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having watched them.
This is certainly not a bad film but it is Also completely overated in my opinion. This story has been done a million times and How the wardens didn't notice he was chipping through the wall everyday to escape is beyond me. The acting throughout is very good but i am shocked to see this number 1 on the chart.


#2 favorite movie in the database? Mein Gott!! Surely you jest.

Big-budget marquee name rip-off of the ever popular naif-in-prison B-film standard. Except the B movies don't pretend they aren't going for the shock/schlock appeal.

Utter rubbish.

One of the best movies ever made! This movie is a masterpiece not to be forgotten. There is no other movie like this, and you won't regret it if you watch it. I'm.
A film which has every emotion packed in. Tim Robbins is fantastic. Morgan freeman is the typical Morgan Freeman, amazing actor who is in my eyes an all time great which we will not see the likes of again.

Mark Rolston(Alien, Rush Hour, Lethal weapon) and Bob Gumpton(Patch Adams, Broken Arrow, Ace Ventura) play the bad guys you hate to love.

The Shawshank redemption is a film that can be shown in cinemas till the end of time and will sell every showing.
I like this movie.It has a great-deep message about life,freedom and friendship.

I can't understand why Metascore is only 80 for this masterpiece while films like La La Land which are over rated, scored 100. But I'm happy that users, which have less preconceptions than critics, give it justice and rated it TOP 1 on IMDB. It truly deserves it. This is a profound depiction of friendship and redemption, a n inspiring film that everyone should watch, because it has the power to uplift your spirit.
I'm sorry but I just don't get the big deal over this movie.

It is pure melodramatic schmaltz. Give me Cool Hand Luke or Papillon any day. Or how about Scum or even Chopper.

I have to admit I felt the same way about The Green Mile, maybe it's just Stephen King's view of prison I don't like. As if he has a clue!

I think he should just stick with the coming of age stuff (loved Stand By Me) and the isolated looneys (The Shining), things he can obviously relate to. Leave prison stories to the folks who actually leave their house.
I am pretty sure I have watched it more than 50 times now , and I will watch it a 100 times more, shared the experience of this work of art and recommended it to many many people because i felt it will be selfish to keep it to myself. The movie is ageless, timeless and pure, it sticks with you forever. The shawshank redemption isn't just a movie, it is a feeling.
My lifetime favourite movie in Hollywood. Can't believe such a wonderful screenplay and characterization in jail. This movie will be speaker for generations. Hatssof To the screenwriting and director. Morgan always rocks. Salute to director and screenwriting

You may think 10/10 is a given, but the way I see it 10/10 is perfection. This movie is NOT perfect. It relies too much on the ending. The first 2 hours of the movie ( great as it is ) is lacking complexity. The remaining 20 minutes fools you into thinking it's the best movie ever made. But I am here to tell you It's NOT! I love this movie with all my heart but I just don't think it deserves the number one spot.
Shawshank may not be the best film of all time, but for me it was perfect. A film is perfect (for me) if it shows a character who wins against insurmountable odds (Robbins). Another essential ingredient for a perfect film is a character who, by his actions, changes the life of another human being for the better (again, Robbins). The last 15 minutes of the film are so gripping: we don't know what is going to happen to Freeman, but we are so involved at this point that any other ending would be unthinkable. I loved this film!

This film is nothing but one cliche after another. Having seen many of the 100's of prison films made from the early 30's to the 50's, I was able to pull almost every minute of Shawcrap from one of those films.

While it is visually well made and acted, the story has every plot point of the "standard" prison film. They have the evil warden, innocent main character, friendly guilty guy, thugs and one good old prisoner. Don't waste your time on this one. Rent or buy some of the classic's of the prison genre.
Best movie. Must see. Engrossing. Great story, good acting, good direction.
I have read tons of people getting off watching this pile of random prison drama, and I cannot believe this is the highest rated movie on IMDb.

I never liked Morgan Freeman. Really. He always plays the wise man in movies, and that is quite unbearable. Not only it jails him (lol) to a specific, unrisky role as an actor, but it's also outrageously pretentious. Tim Robbins is OK I guess.

So you get to see some fishy business involving cigarettes and rocks for two hours, spiced by some five-year-old melancholic philosophy.

End of story, If you like prison drama, go watch The Green Mile.

I wasted two hours so you won't, you're welcome.

Eassycart has been a seller-centric marketplace since our inception - that's why we don't make any money until you do. No listing fees, no monthly store fees, no other sneaky fees. We provide one-click publishing to all major buyer channels, and we pay all advertising costs on your behalf until you make a sale. Although most marketplaces focus exclusively on promoting their own brand to buyers, Eassycart is a platform that allows sellers to make sales and build a brand by developing relationships with their customers. Building your online business takes vision, dedication, and time, so you need to know you're building on a solid foundation.
My impression is that since the early ninenties and especially after "green fried tomatoes" was released movies regarding human relations and/or tragedy and using narative as their spine became fashionable..Countless movies followed that i dont care to mention most of them inferior than the original they tried to follow and one of them is Shawshank redemption.Sure it is not a mellow love story but about life in prison that is objectively hard.But somehow the typical ingredients are there.The film is mostly sad and melodramatic and one can even consider it romantic in a way.Despite its strong cast and a good storyline it does not avoid all these characteristic cliches that sadly deprive it from any real replay value.Rent it on dvd and you wont be disapointed by viewing it but the second best movie of all times it aint and you will know this because you wont feel the need to watch it now and then as it happens at least to me with movies that are really classics...Not a bad movie but highly overrated....3 out of five stars.
This movie was excellence at it's best. In my mind, it is great if you can watch a long movie and just not want it to end. That's what this one did to me. Besides the point that the acting was some of the best you'll see in the 90's. The story was golden. If you haven't seen this, get it now.
Shawshank redemption is world's best movie ever made. I will remember this movie throughout my life. Pls pls watch this movie. It will change your perspective.
The Shawshank Redemption lost the Academy Award for Best Picture to the new visual effects technology utilized in Forrest Gump. In addition, Shawshank only made 10% of the box office gross as Gump, which received far more press coverage due to the visual effects used in the film. Gump is a great film and deserved the Oscar for visual effects, but its story does not compare to the brilliance of Shawshank. The ability to see Tom Hanks shaking hands with dead presidents in the White House amazed movie goers and the box office receipts amazed the Academy members. Shawshank is an amazing story and an outstanding film; whereas, Gump is a series of vignettes exploited by the new visual effects technology.
The Shawshank Redemption is an excellent example of Hollywood craftsmanship. It has believable acting, excellent pacing, good cinematography and tells the story in a very effective manner. But it is film as a craft, not as an art.

To put this film in the same category as those of Kubrick, Kurosawa, Truffaut or Bergman is like comparing a piece of quality furniture to a Picasso.

I doubt even one in a hundred people, who hold this film in such high regard as to vote it #2, could actually name the director if you asked them in the street.
This is a great movie. At first, when I heard that Stephen King was one of the authors I didn't expect it to be this good, I don't enjoy horror movies but later I understood that it wasn't a horror movie so I watched it and I enjoyed every minute of it. Excellent performances by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins.
in my opinion ,it's better than the ordinary Monte Cristo story that we all know as the greatest escape tale , so this time the escape is greater! and the hero is an ordinary man , who is so patient and hopeful, while you watch the first few minutes of the film you may think that it's social or silly story, but minute by minute you will recognize that you were wrong, it's a Brilliant Story,a never seen before , a very powerful drama .. the best thing in that movie was the relations between characters,like hating,and true friendship like the one which was between Tim Robins and Morgan Freeman,

I like this movie and i advice every one on the planet to watch it as soon as possible....
Absolutely the best movie I have seen in my lifetime. I'm a hardcore action fan, but I sat and watched this movie and never checked the time. This movie is compelling. Tim Robbins gives a great performance nonetheless, but it is Morgan Freeman's character that adds such emotion to the movie. I always catch the movie on TNT and I watch it to the end. The end is fantastic, and it leaves me with tingles (if you know what I mean). Morgan Freeman's line "Get busy living, or get busy dying..." is one to remember. He adds so much feeling to the movie, and the entire thing is flawless. There isn't a line or scene out of place in the entire thing. I sat there thinking hard about the movie for a while, but then I got up and headed to the nearest shop. That movie was going to be my own.
This wasn't a bad movie by any means, in fact it was pretty good. Good story, good acting, fairly dramatic, it has most of the key elements in place. But after reading the book, which was amazing, watching this drawn out film version just isn't the same. Compared to some of the modern junk that's out there, Shawshank is pretty solid. But overall, it truly is overrated, and #2 all time is silly.
Best movie ever. I've seen it about 25 times now, and it never gets boring.
"The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it, and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final redemption.

I am dumbfounded by the exorbitant praise for this movie. It is almost frightening--like a cult. I watched it last night and was completely underwhelmed. This did not have have half the emotional charge of a dozen other prison flicks, not to mention other dramatic categories. Yes, the story was OK, good (not great) acting, but I found it to be largely insipid and predictable. It just did not grab me like other stories of redemption such as A Christmas Carol or It's a Wonderful Life. As you can see by my citing these two films, I am not offended by cheesy sentimentality, if well done. Shawshank simply had nothing new to say or a new way to say it. The only reason I am writing this review is to demonstrate that there are indeed some people who are not swept away by this movie. Otherwise, I would not have bothered. The film simply was not interesting enough.
This movie is easily one of the greatest movies of all time. "The Shawshank Redemption" is an adaptation of Stephen King's novella titled "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption". This movie is truly a masterpiece with the perfect casting of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. The lessons you learn, the emotions that were touched, the friendships that were made and overall, the redemption that every character got in their own way is what made this movie special. This movie teaches you about hope and institutionalization which means being stuck in one place for so long that it's all you ever know. It shows the darkness about being in prison. In conclusion, this movie is a 10/10. Hands down one of the greatest movies ever and I'll definitely rewatch it in the future.
This movie is not your ordinary Hollywood flick. I can say with confidence this is the best movie I have ever seen - or ever will see. If you haven't watch it yet, just GO! Watch it! Now!
This is the #1. Absolute must see film of the 1990s, Our Generation, anyone's lifetime and quite possibly the history of film. Hope and perseverance are front and center as themes in this blockbuster. Anyone of any age any race either sex and any religion should see this and I promise you'll wish to share it with everyone you know. Don't think "another Prison Movie" about-this one, it's above and beyond that clichÃ©. Expect career performances from Morgan Freeman, Tim Robbins, Bob Gunton, and James Whitmore. Along side many outstanding character performances from the supporting cast. I Cannot emphasize-the importance of this film. I personally thank Everyone involved in producing such an enormous telling of Steven Kings masterpiece. It has become a source of daily inspiration for me and I continue to watch it Several times a year to this day. thank you.

Share some of the sentences in this movie. 1.It takes a strong man to save himself, and a great man to save another. 2.Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free.
When I first saw this movie in 1994, before the hype, I thought it was a passable flick; nothing special and certainly in keeping with the usual schmaltz expected from any non-horror Stephen King work. In fact, with the exception of Morgan Freeman's excellent performance, I found it imminently forgettable. Then, lo, came the Academy Awards with a surprising nomination for Best Picture. Then, even worse, came the belated hype from its legion of fans. I could not understand this adoration of a movie that was as sugar-coated as that other saccharine movie of 94, Forrest Gump. Worse than Gump's unpalatable cuteness, however, was Shawshank's genre clichÃ©s: the rape scene, the prisoner's pet, etc. Had no-one seen Escape From Alcatraz or Birdman of Alcatraz? For me, Shawshank is possibly the most overrated film ever made, a fact emphasised by its place at No. 2 in the IMDb top 250.

They say there are no perfect movies. Most of the time that holds true. But this is the one exception. I find no faults in The Shawshank Redemption. It is indeed a perfect film if ever there was one. It is wildly entertaining and extremely insightful. You won't want to blink for fear of missing something. You are able to identify and sympathize with the main character, and with his friend, who provides the greatest bits of narration of any film ever. This is not an exaggeration. Furthermore, we learn something about ourselves and our fellow human beings by watching this film. It is a work of art and a bit of real life. The production values are amazing. It should have won ten Oscars.
Best Movie With The Best Close Ending Ever Seen Although Its So Old But It Kept making Me Go Back And see it.

The Shawshank Redemption is an exciting and very emotional excursion. It is the best "jail" movie ever made, for sure. There's suspense, surprises, and more, but it's true greatness is in it's show of the human spirit triumphing over impossible odds. With a pair of great actors and a very nice script, The Shawshank Redemption winds up getting a 10/10 from me.
Masterpiece.One of the best if not the best movie ever made.Wish i have the chance to watch it for 1st time again.A top 3 movie with no doubt.


The Best inspirational movie. HOPE is a good thing and it's the best thing. "HOPE"
I've never read the book, so I'm not sure if the book and the script conflict. Either way, it is a very good movie. However, there are many inconsistencies through out the movie which ruin it for me. If you break down the movie in to individual scenes, the movie shows its perfections and imperfections. The characters are believable, with the storyline also being fairly solid. My favorite scene is the tar/roof top scene. Very well done. Very real life. The weakest part of the movie is the ending. There are more inconsistencies and continuity problems in the ending and I think it is because they rushed the ending.

I'd like to get the BlueRay version of this and watch the special items for this movie. I'd like to see the making of it and the behind the scenes.


Cannot see why this film is rated so highly. Sure, its watchable and nicely inoffensive, but its not really about much, and nothing really happens. Just a film about a bloke going to prison. Somewhere along the line I think I must have missed something, because I can think of at least a hundred better films. Saying that, Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are flawless, though the latter's best film will always be the Hudsucker Proxy. (Which incidentally is a better film.)
Loved this mivue must see. This is a very interesting movie and a must see. Action packed and popcorn and chill.

Fear Can Hold You Prisoner, Hope Can Set You Free. Some people's wings are so bright that even the darkest prison in the world cannot encircle them for a long time. This film tells a simple story, a redemption, in exchange for freedom. Besides the belief drive him to do so. This film is moving, it also makes many people grow up.
The best movie I have ever seen. The best movie I have ever seen, a story full of ups and downs and stress that constantly encourages you to watch.
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time. The movie is based on a story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption
I have literally just turned off the DVD player after watching this film for the very first (and last) time after so much hype I thought it was about time. I sat all the way through it and did enjoy it, but I really don't see what all the fuss is about. Yes it is a good film, yes it is a good plot. However I had guessed the outcome and a few bits within the film before the flashback at the end, and therefore for me there were no unexpected twists. I wasn't even moved at the end. In fact all in all I was a bit disappointed, as my friends who have seen it said that they had cried and it was such a brilliant film. Am I abnormal???????? I think the green mile was better and I did cry at the end of that. I'm sorry if I upset any of you who think it is the best film ever, but I don't.

Hope is a good thing never give up hope. Hope can you free.
The Shawshank Redemption is an absolutely terrific movie that shows why Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are two of the finest actors alive today. I predict years from now Shawshank will be held up as a true American classic. This is a flawless film. My one regret is that I never saw this on the big screen. (I think the odd name 'Shawshank Redemption' and the fact that it was a Stephen King story kept me away initially [thank goodness for cable TV]) I urge anyone who reads this to please see this movie. It is the best film I have ever seen about life and hope.
L have nothing to say.it's a story about hope.and it's use montage technique,a deep suspense.lt tru that everyone love it

Just loved this movie, every characters and acting are phenomenal.
The good points of this movie have already been stated in the other posts, so I will stick to the points I feel detracted from the movie. This movie never gripped me, I never really felt all that emotionally involved with the characters. Even though 19 years passed in the story, I never got the sense of time passing as I have in other movies that have storylines that span decades. All the characters who weren't prisoners were very one-dimensional. Overall, it was a pretty good movie, but I don't think it belongs in the top 250.
This movie is full of suspension, drama, excitement, knowledge, etc, . I loved this movie, previously before watching this movie i thought that how prisoners go and how they feel. Know i understand they all are innocent ðŸ˜‡.

One of the best movies .It give us an inspiring message that one should never give up in his/her life.

This movie told us the value of patience. Definately recommended.

It's very rare that you find such diversity in a movie now days. I like the story and it's concept.A thumping good ode to friendship, hope, wit, wiles and wisdom, brimming with crackling characters and topped with the most twister of twists since "The Crying Game." The Shawshank Redemption is a powerful and uplifting, not to mention Oscar-worthy film. In 2006, it was ranked as the greatest film ever by Empire, a film magazine. The year it came out it was nominated for 7 academy awards but did not win a single one because of a movie you may all remember, Forrest Gump. It's the no-bull performances that hold back the flood of banalities. Robbins and Freeman connect with the bruised souls of Andy and Red to create something undeniably powerful and moving. Some of "The Shawshank Redemption'' comes across as outrageously improbable. Yet the film keeps pulling you back with its sense of striving humanity slowly turning the tables against evil.
What can i say that already hasn't been said? Nothing. It's amazing, amazing characters and iconic lines and scenes. And when it ended i just sat there with a big smile on my face for 10 minutes. Watch it.
There are great movies & then there's The Shawshank Redemption. It's timeless & it has filled me with hope many times when I was down. Pure magic, won't write more as everything has already been written many times by many.


It's not a bad film. It's just derivative and melodramatic. It borrows from "Cool Hand Luke," a superior film. It relishes its significance too much. It's a bit smug. Morgan Freeman's voiceover is a clumsy narrative device. I don't know -- I just know for sure it's not one of "the best films of all time." Not even close.
This is one of the best movies about "friendship" I've ever seen, also one of the best prison movies. I found it better than Robert Redford's "CASTLE". Morgan Freeman was perfect as usual and I can say that Tim Robbins reached the top of his performance and also his career. I wish this couple come together for another movie, the kind of it is not important I'm sure the spectators will have the same taste as before. I watched most of the films of Morgan Freeman and I can say this was the best of his, normally he prefers to play in films like "Seven","Kiss the girls","Along came a spider",... but I think he should think again that which kind of his films stay at the top of the charts...
After seeing this movie I could not notice to be misled by the IMDB rating. The movie is nice, even good, but no way it should receive a 9.0.

The movie could easily have been produced by Disney: strong moral & a happy ending. Sure, there are strong points. The scene of the old man who have been imprisoned for almost his whole life is very well placed and Tim Robbins' performance is good but the story itself does not leave anything behind.

3 out of 5. That's all there is to it.
Outstanding movie brilliant direction and great acting.
This is the best drama that I have ever seen. Morgan Freeman was beyond amazing, and was one of my favorite aspects of the movie. The story was perfect. I genuinely cannot think of a single critique of this movie. I advise you to drop whatever you are doing and watch this now!
Very good performances from Freeman and Robbins. Good writing. The best move ever? Nope. I gave it a 8 out of 10.

As a libertarian, my own feelings about freedom, power, and corruption are apparently quite a bit stronger than either Darabont or Stephen King.

when i began to watch this movie,i just said to myself,this should be the best i ever saw in my life,judging the IMDb rating and Kinopoisk rating!and it really haven't disappointed me! i learned,that if you want something so much,and the wish to achieve a thing or to get something is bigger and greater than anything else,this will obviously happen! there is nothing more important than to believe in yourself,to believe in justness, in the right choice of destiny! there are things that i disliked in the movie,but those awesome moments just overcome all the misses! I'm gonna watch it again...cause there still remain a lot of meanings and messages that i must follow! Hope is the best thing that can ever happen to you! never loose it!
I think its obvious to anyone that has seen this movie that its quite possibly the best film ever. Its just perfect, iv watched it so many times but its gets better every time, in fact the last time i watched it, it brought a tear to my eye just as it finished. And i know, that sounds quite sad but, anyone who has seen film and understands the sheer quality of its brilliance! Don't get me wrong, there are other brilliant films but this this one stands out amongst all others, if you haven't seen this movie then i strongly advise that you make it your #1 priority.

11/10
Towards the end, dealing with Freeman's loneliness, I felt how he was feeling. These are believable criminals. People say these guys are too nice to be hard-core criminals, but people make mistakes. The guys' mistakes were on a big-time scale. One line will remain with me forever : Get busy livin, or get busy dying.

Well, Get busy watching or get busy goin';
I cannot possibly realize why this movie is rated in top movies. There is nothing new in this film and there isn't anything in it that makes it special. Wake up people! Quote Bill Hicks "Piece of Sh*t".

OK I'll give it that there isn't anything to complain about the acting or directing, etc. But this entire movie seems to be a compromise. I also think that the success of this film is based on the "least worst principle" and that makes it bad.

I'm also fed up with the narrator and all the dramatic film music. All this seems like fishing Oscar nominations. Am I really the only one who can see how transparent this is? I doubt it so please vote movies that really will make difference.

It is one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my life. Out of my top 5 worst movies this would be in at least the top 3 movies I hate. It is just so boring and everytime I turn on TNN or something it is on! By far one of the worst movies ever!
This is such a good movie! Excellent screenplay and directing. And the casting is fantastic; everyone just fit their part like a hand in glove. The whole story flows smoothly that you forget it's all make-believe.

I told one of my friends many times to watch this film and it took her years before she actually did. Once finished she said, "What took me so long? This movie is soooo good!".
Stephen King's stories usually do not translate well to movies (Carrie, The Running Man), but occasionally, a King story is done right (Shining, Stand By Me). This movie is probably the best of the group. It's a brilliant story matched with a brilliant screenplay. The cast was great from the professionals (Robbins, Freeman) to the relatively unknown actors. This movie is about a man's will to survive even when his future looks the darkest. One of my all time favorite movies.
Indeed... This is the best movie in history. An outclass script. And beautiful narration.
I watched it a few years ago and i dont really remember the story in details, but i remember that i had i lot of emotions here and this movie give you some life lessons. Morgan Freeman is genius!
Perfection! 10 is to little for this movie. This is MASTERPIECE! People have no reason not give this movie a ten!
I'm not saying that Shawshank Redemption is a bad movie, in some ways it's perfect. The storytelling is seamless and unquestionable, the characters are bright and strong. Villains with motivation. Heroes are not idiots. Events are justified by circumstances that push the heroes to independent actions. But my God, there are so many films that are so many times more worth your time and emotional energy that Shawshank Redemption is a quiet and meditative movie that is hard to watch at times. It's impossible for me personally to worry about characters that look so fake and created specifically for this story. They cannot be imagined in other circumstances, outside the picture. The lack of deep meanings and the possibility of different interpretations of the characters and what is happening is annoying. In general, he may just not be my type, but in the end it's just one of the opinions.

A film of hope, lessons, life and freedom. This is one of the greatest films of our times - highly recommended viewing!

9/10.
I love this film to bits, even though it can be hard to watch.
The Shawshank Redemption, one of the rare works of Stephen King that does not contain horror elements, has always been the subject of discussion in cinema conversations. Some say it's the best movie ever, while others think it's the most over-rated movie ever.. I think it's one of the best movies ever.
This is an amazing movie. I can watch it time and time and time again

How the hell did this get voted number one in the top 250? Meandering adaptation of a tight little King short. Typically hammy performances and so sugary you could drop it into the world's water system and everyone would go hyper.

It's okay, as adaptations go, but there is soooo much better out there.

Steev
This film was totally amazing and is my favourite film of all time. This film humanizes the characters in prison which something we don't see in many Hollywood films as they dehumanize the prison characters. Also, it depicts the cruelt of prison very well and all the characters in this movie were amazing! Even the side characters were very engaging to watch. I actually tested up at the end of this movie. I strongly recommend this film to you if you haven't watched it yet
This drama has been widely vaunted as one of the best films ever made- personally I just can't see the appeal. Sure it contains very good performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman- but there have been other, much better screen performances by other actors. There is very little suspense or originality about the plot and nothing that hasn't been seen or done on screen a hundred times before. So why the popularity? It's a formulaic feel-good movie who's happy ending is never in doubt. Knowing that Stephen King wrote the novel on which the film was based would probably give that away anyway. As with any adaptation from book to film there are several differences between the two, though the film does, on this occasion, improve on the book.

There have been better adaptations of King novels (The Shining) and better performances by better actors, yet for some reason this film continues to be rated as better than it actually is.
This movie proves its worth of having top spot on IMDb list.It is not only entertaining but also with a lesson never loose hope as it is the best thing a man can have.Great acting displayed by lead actors specially Morgan freeman.Truly a moving movie with great moral&climax.Dialouges of this film are well written. You will miss something if HAVE not watch it. Highly recommendable for those who have give up their hope in life. they will find how hope will get best of them.I will say that viewers have truly voted for this film without under influence of big & popular name as it usually happens.Like godfather.Godfather is nice film but not nice enough to give points above 9 to it.

So i watched this film maybe 10 times Russian version, 5 original English. Read both book versions. It's beautiful story! When i have watched this film first time, after started to follow the career of the actor Morgan Freeman. He is a great actor. I give the film 10 stars
Tim Robbins as a banker who goes to prison being accused of murdering his wife and her lover.Sentence: life in prison.Morgan Freeman is his fellow inmate "Red" and William Sadler is Heywood.Later a young inmate, Gil Bellows as Tommy joins in.The poster of Rita Hayworth has a big role in the film.Later it's Marilyn Monroe and finally it's Raquel Welch.Frank Darabont directed this marvelous film based on Stephen King's short story.It's one of the best movies made of King's stories.Probably the best one alongside The Shining (1980).The acting is superb.The story is fantastic.The Shawshank Redemtion is a big movie.A kind of movie we should see more often.
Well there's not much you can say about this movie except that it is the Best movie of all time and no other Movie will top this great Great movie If you have not seen it sit back clear your mind and watch it and make sure you are not bothered while watching it that way you can fully understand the film and its purpose.So out of a 1-10 scale I give it a 10+++++++ IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN IT RENT IT!!!!!!!!
I cant describe how amazing this movie is, but i dont have to because almost everyone saw it and if you havent... what are you waiting for? Probably the best movie on earth
Andy has a better place is that he did not give up all the thinking in his outside life, he was not convinced by the institutionalized life in prison. In other words, he still insisted on his own heart and did not lose himself. This is the most important point of life. If you don't know why you are alive, it can only be a walking body, not an emotional person.
Frank Darabont has created a good film about the misuse of criminal justice system and the obnoxious corruption in prisons.He has done this by showing an insider's view of a penitentiary from the perspective of its inmates.Although Tim Robbins has a good role in this film as Andy,he is surpassed by Red played by Morgan Freeman.He is at the summit of his acting prowess as everything is written on his face.There is no other actor in Hollywood or elsewhere who could have done this role of Red with absolute conviction as Morgan Freeman. Shawshank Redeption tells us in clear terms that in prisons it is the rule of everyman for himself but sometimes there are exceptions. Feelings of suffering,sadness,trust,joy,companionship occur which give the prisoners the hope to carry on.It is nice that there is not much focus on feminine characters as they did not have anything that could have justified their presence.
This film, if it isn't one of the greatest of all time, at least I can say it is one of the greatest I've ever seen. This is a must-recommend, because to be honest, this is one of the many movies a movie lover must see before they die. It is not just a great film, but a great experience. And it is quite the experience! Morgan Freeman gives the performance of his career in this film. I give props to the director for making him narrate the film as well. He is just that great. Tim Robbins give a very underrated performance in this film. Freeman stole the show, but there was a certain subtlety of Robbins' that can't go without being recognized. Either way, both these men give their full effort into this film. There is a great atmosphere around this film as well, it's a subtle tone, as this is a subtle, (But great) film, but it changes when it needs to change, and it knows exactly when. As a matter-of-fact, what makes this movie great is that it knows exactly when it needs to do something powerful, thoughtful or sentimental, and to be honest as a moviegoer, that is all I can ask for.
One of those films you must see in your lifetime. The soundtrack alone is five stars! Sublime acting all around. A film that may have been a slow burn in popularity but has now established itself as a true hollywood masterpiece!! ðŸ…

P.s. my all time fav line: "the funny thing is, on the outside I was an honest man. Straight as an arrow. I had to come to prison to be a crook."
What a complete masterpiece this film is, from the first line spoken to the zoom-out in the end. The actors are all great, but Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins really do outstanding performances. This is probably my all time favorite film and to anyone who hasn't seen it there's only one thing I can say: Please do! You won't be disappointed.
I wait for the day when this film is no longer in the top 200 of IMDb, as it deserves. Please, if any film was passed over in favor of Gump at the 1995 Oscars--it was the best film of the nineties--PULP FICTION.
This is perhaps one of the best movies I have ever seen and no doubt the best of Stephen King. Director Frank Darabont created a masterpiece.

It is a very intelligent story telling us how hard prison life can be. It critics the judgements of innocent prisoners. But the most I liked is that every time there is another interesting story that develops in this prison. At the last third of the movie we can enjoy the big surprise or the dessert. This novel is very nice told and it merits standing ovation. I and my wife rarely see such films. This is quality of film making and today where we are? 8.5/10.

If you liked this donÂ´t miss another masterpiece from the same director called "THE GREEN MILE".
This movie is one of the greatest I have ever seen. Morgan Freeman gives an unbelievable performance in this work. The direction of it is exquisite (and gives much to Tim Robbins character, I know he is a good actor, but the direction gives so much more to him). The soundrack is unparalleled and the story is exquisite (thanks to Stephen King). I have seen many greats, Citizen Kane, The Godfather, Cuckoo's Nest, The Deer Hunter, Apocalypse Now....etc. This movie is fantastic, and the fact it didnt' win (or even get nominated) for an Oscar is the reason I don't pay attention to the Oscars anymore. This movie is fantastic, and an artistic triumph. I have no respect for the Academy for ignoring this flick.

Like a lot of people, didn't really seem an interesting title when it was released. WHOA. This is a movie that I know I've watched the most number of times than any other movie. Fantastic movie.

Shawshank is by far the most grossly overrated films of all time. To say that this is better than Lawrence of Arabia, better than Alien, Better then Saving Private Ryan, is just ridiculous. This movie is weak, as are all the characters in it. I'll never forgot the scene where the old man hangs himself after leaving prison and the piano symphony kicks in. Why should I feel sorry for him? Try living in Africa buddy and tell me how hard your life is. This movie is for weak people who love to shed a tear for prisoners and overall just weak people. Now I love the director of this and Stephen King, but im sorry, this isn't a masterpiece, it's forcing the audience into the characters emotional problems that few can relate. Go see the Green Mile instead.

Rating = D-

VideoGameHollywood.com
This movie takes you through all kinds of emotions. It's an absolute classic. And with the two wonderful protagonist actors, it's definitely one of the best movies I've ever seen. I've watched it 3 or 4 times and never gets boring.

amongst so many films that are really well known and stink and blockbusters that stink. This is not a blockbuster but a classic to all movie buffs and it is becoming more and more known and appreciated. I love this film. I have seen it the for the third time recently and still it brings tears into my eyes at some points. The cast is great, with Morgan Freeman and a great Tim Robbins. I still do not know what to think of Andy (Robbins), did he do it or didn't he. There are several hints in the film but I still do not know, for Andy is a hard man to see through.

WATCH THIS MUST SEE

8 out of 10
Can't believe it didn't win anything... Morgan Freeman was suoerb. He and Tim Robbins should win an award... and yes. This is how movie should be made. It touches your soul, make you feel good and grateful.
I had heard about the movie since it first came out, but somehow, I never got around to watching it. Now, I super-glad that I watched it. It is an utterly fantastic movie, to the max. The movie contains almost every human emotion that there is, and overall, it is a totally wonderful character study, as well. There is marvelous writing, and a totally well thought-out plot, and the acting talent throughout is on an almost otherworldly level. It is a movie that captured my attention from the very beginning, keeping me totally engaged throughout for the entire duration of the film. All said, this is yet another movie that I truly wish that I could give more than ten stars, because it truly deserves many, many stars.
This is a very fine movie that was unfortunately somewhat overlooked when it was first released. Word of mouth and critical acclaim has resulted in the movie becoming one of the best known and loved films of recent times.

The story tells of the imprisonment of Andy Dufresne (Robbins) at the harsh Shawshank prison. Gradually over time he befriends Red (Freeman) who is the fixer in the prison who can get hold of any items at a price. Andy channels his frustration into making things better at the prison. The smallest achievement is celebrated and used as impetus for the next challenge. The film should really make the viewer treasure the things that we all take for granted on a day to day basis. The other interesting aspect of the film is the institutionalisation as portrayed with Brooks. he has been in prison for so long he cannot (and does not want to) survive on the outside. 9/10

A very deep, very powerful actor, a very beautiful and engaging film that you don't tap into, and you enjoy it minute by minute, I advise you to take a pen and pen with you when you see this video to write down the tips that will teach you to use it later in your life. At the end of the film, you'll feel a real sense of freedom, and you'll feel all the sadness and sorrow you saw in the film, as if none had happened. To put it this way, it's all over. I strongly suggest it.
Too sentimental, too pathetic, too slow, too conventionally made, and the voice over explaining everything ruins it completely, making it boring as hell. By far the most overrated film of all times.

This film is a masterpiece and clearly deserved 10/10
I do not even feel as though I need to go into a great amount of detail to explain just how amazing this film is.

You've probably seen the movie sitting on the top spot of 'IMDB's top 250', or maybe you've heard a friend babble on about how great the movie is and know it must be half-decent. I can assure you this will live up to your expectations. The acting, the plot, the setting, the cast, the directing, the messages and symbols, the acting again (deserves another mention) is just about as perfect as a movie can be in this setting. Please don't waste your time pondering over whether or not to see this movie or whether or not you should believe the hype because, I can assure you, you can. Go buy this from your local movie store or buy it online - I really don't care - just make sure you watch this film before anything else. As an 18-year-old guy, I can say with confidence this is the best movie I have ever seen - or ever will see. Go watch it! Now!
The plot and the actors amazed me. The ninetees clearly were the best era of movies and this one is a great example.

It's boring, i don't care about the characters. Overrated to madness. The movie could have been way darker, feels like a disney adventure.

Great acting, ok story.
This film is a truly awesome film once i had started watching the first 10 minutes of it i was addicted to the TV and could do nothing but to watch it. This story is about a respectable banker (Andy Duframe) who is sentenced to Shawshank prison for life imprisonment for a crime he did not commit. Once he arrives at Shawshank he soon starts to learn that the prison mentally takes your life. However, Andy seems very unusual being very quite and polite around the prison. At the spectacular climax at the end of this film it just gives the viewer such an amazing feeling of hope and in my opinion this is the best film every made. A must watch film!!! 10/10
I have to say that it was just fine, but not as great as some are making it to be.
Not so nice and boring. They have to get better with their movies
I'll keep this short and sweet. I am not the type of person who reads critique reviews and determines whether that will make me watch a movie or not. However, I didn't think I would ever want to see this movie after seeing the preview and a friend said it was a bit slow. I have to honestly say that I was impressed by the directing, acting and overall story. This is a great move! You should defiantly take the time out of your life to see a great movie that is not a superhero remake. This story has structure, purpose and meaning. Though, if you can't sit still then don't bother. However, I do think it's time we get some culture back in our lives.
This movie doesn't deserve a 10, it deserves a 11...

This is the best movie I ever saw, everything on the movie is great, the story, the acting, the message, just everything. I spoke with so many people that saw this movie, and everyone of them said that The Shawshak Redemption is a truly masterpiece.

If someone is reading this- please stop reading and go and watch the movies if you haven't yet, because you will see one of the best movies ever made in human history. It is the best rated movie (9.2) and when I see that rating Im just asking myself "why is there just a 9.2 instead of a 10??
This is a classic about hope. Hope is not in prison. The owner, gong'an Di, was misunderstood and imprisoned. Relying on his inner firmness, he saved his life with wisdom and hope, saved the prison with a small hammer, and sowed the seeds of hope into everyone's heart.
Are there people still left to watch this masterpiece? I'm talking to them, this ain't a /sci-fi/action/thriller/mystery/comedy/ movie. No CGI, No gut crunching actions. A drama yet so natural with exceptional acting moments. Just some prisoners talking to each other. Yet it is in the list of all time best. Yes, the makers might have prompted some magic spells same way like they did to the script.

It couldn't win the Oscars but pretty sure it will win your hearts . The Most influential movie for me.
After I have seen this movie over a dozen times, in different phases of my life, I can help you by saying this is a milestone to have, not only as a movie fan, as well as a person to see, in this story, that hope is the last and first resource. More than twenty years after I saw this for the first time, I can still remember how I felt then and still share the same emotion now that I am a father and an adult with a consciousness of life. Yes, this is entertainment but also something to witness. Regards to everyone involved in the making of this touching masterpiece.
In the first thirty minutes of watching this show on a slow Saturday afternoon I knew it was my favorite. I was captured instantly by how the story unfolded. You can't help but deeply respect Andy Dufrain (I don't know if thats spelled correctly). The way he speaks with thought and hope, the way he walks about the jail collecting rocks. Seemingly oblivious to the fact that he is imprisoned in a jail. They couldn't have found a person that suited the roll of Red better than Morgan Freeman. His voice is perfect for the narration of the film. Every card played by this movie was an ace. From the way they filmed the tall, barren walls of the prison to the brilliant story( thanks to Stephen King for that), and let's not forget the music. I am pleased to see that it's in the top spot of this site, I think it deserves it.
I really recommend this MP. I thank all the casting, directors, producers, writers and other staff for crafting this unforgettable movie. I give 10/10 for leaving a smile on my face at the end and joy in my heart. Thank you!
One of the top movies i have ever watch! Must seen!
It makes you feel stuff. This movie makes you feel emotion. It's awesome, a classic, and really not that overrated
"Redemption by Shawshank" turns life into a cruel choice. Shawshank's redemption is something we have to remember repeatedly in our simple lives. Believing in yourself, not giving up hope, giving up effort, and waiting patiently for your own glory in life, is Shawshank's redemption.
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) bides his time during twenty years' imprisonment for the murder of his wife in this adaptation of a Stephen King story. And being Stephen King, the setting is once again Maine, though you'll find 'Shawshank State Prison' in Ohio. It's the forbiddingly Gothic Mansfield Reformatory, 100 Reformatory Road, Mansfield, on US Route 30, about 80 miles southwest of Cleveland.

Built between 1886 and 1910, the reformatory remained in operation until 1990 and was scheduled for demolition when the film was made. In fact, much of the prison yard has now gone to make room for the adjacent Richland Correctional Institution, but the striking Administration Building lives on as a tourist attraction. Find it just north of downtown Mansfield, off South Olivesburg Road.

Shawshank Redemption narrates a beautiful story of two prisoners bonding over the number of years. Their experiences in the prison and the chemistry between two (Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman) have been shot with terrific care.Editing and Screenplay of this movie are among the best in any movie you will see.

The credit goes to director on shaping the movie in such an interesting way and the ending of the movie is arguably among one of the very bests. One might feel the movie is a bit slow at times, but you are always into the plot which brings on new surprises consistently.

Overall, this is the sort of movie you will remember for long time and a benchmark among the "feel good" movies. MUST WATCH.
I saw this movie few years back.i was immature, i didn't get what this movie was offering True Meaning Of Friendship,Patience, to see every Perspective of turns whether its hard or not we face during our lifetime.. Really a strong movie must watch

I watched three times,every time i have different feelings .
"A long road to freedom, and a soul of washing, an immortal motivational classic," hope "follow the will of god sleep was hollowed out of the bible in inside pages, attached to the Andy tall body, near 500 yards of the sewer, in the end, the only dirty way took Andy to the beautiful new world.
The more times you watch it, the more you love it, and the more you learn from it. An absolutely encouraging story to those who are desperate or sad or complaining about bad luck. If you never give up and try to figure out a way ahead, nothing can stop you to the brightness and freedom. Everything you have experienced will bring you positive influences if you take it positively. I have watched it for many times, at least ten times I guess. Now I hope I can download it and keep it and enjoy it once I have time. I used it to encourage people around me, for example, a girl friend who's suffering from the depression, a workmate who has just lost his favorite pet, and a friend who lost his job recently.

Okay so many people may be wondering why I hate such a "beautiful work of literature" or "The best story ever told on screen". Well there are too many reasons to list in my maximum of 1,000 words. So instead I will give a few obvious reasons on why I truly hate this movie. Being a teenager I enjoy movies like "Mystic River" and "Donnie Darko". You know psychological thrillers. Well this is nothing of the sort. "The Shawshank Redemption" is what I classify as a Sleeping movie. The name says it all. You sleep while you watch it. It took me about a month to get through the whole entire movie. That is very sad considering the praise this movie received. I pray no one else ever has to go through the torture of watching this horrid movie.
An enduring piece of art that will change certain aspects of the way you think for the rest of your life. That's all.
Well what can I say but, Freeman, who is simply a great actor, a man who has never struck a false note in his career, both narrates this tale and anchors it with his authoritative playing. Powerful, poignant, thought-provoking and finally irresistibly uplifting. The Shawshank Redemption works not only as an excellent prison drama, but as a metaphor for overcoming our own private prisons.An amazing movie. Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and definitely one of the top 'prison' movies of all-time. Pretty much everything about this movie works and works extremely well! I have not read Stephen King's novella (his first non-horror), but some of the movie's deficiencies, such as the old-fashioned morality tale and portentous message about camaraderie and redemption--must have been in the source material.
In this movie a man is mistakenly accused in murdering his wife and her boyfriend. He ends up finding away to keep himself occupy and finally helps out his new found friend.

I really like this movie, because it does show you that the system can make a mistake just like everyone can. All people make mistakes and since the government is run by humans of course there are going to be flaws. I had watched this movie for the first time with my dad and I loved watching it since. It does show that when you are determined you can do anything you put your mind to.

I think anyone who likes movies about prison or even about the judicial system will love this film.

This film should barely scratch out a spot in the top 250, let alone be one of the top ranked films of all time. It is rather dull, extraordinarily predictable, and filled with clichÃ©s. This is not even the best prison film, let alone #2 among all films! Cool Hand Luke or Papillon anyone? I'd give it a 7-8/10 (Freeman & Co. do not disappoint), but someone needs to bring down this bloated rating. The film is little more than a rehashing of conventional sentimentalism painted in prison stripes and sold in bulk to a (apparently) gullible audience. Help bring this down to a reasonable position so that more deserving films can attain their proper recognition.
all I can say about this is that it is by a clear mile one of the best films ever made! the story line was gripping and intriguing, there was never a single dull moment and i can honestly say that this film is definitely one that i can watch over and over again without being bored. the cast really brought the characters to life and it was just such an emotional roller-coaster. if you have never seen this film before then i definitely recommend that you watch it! watch it on your own or with friends and family it really doesn't matter because i can guarantee that everyone will love it and if they for some reason don't then they clearly have no taste
The shawshank redemption is probably the one of the best films ever depicted in cinematic form. It is the most controversial and sad film I've ever seen; second is American history x. I loved this film and I thought Tim Robbins was excellent and Morgan Freeman as well. Let me just say to that everybody should see this film. I give it 4/4

This is the worst movie I have ever seen. It's so Hollywood cliche ! How can this be in the top 2 best movies ever ? I don't understand it. Avoid at all cost, this movie is boring !
Shawshank truly is the best-made standalone movie of all time.

As much as I might like the extended Lord of the Rings trilogy more overall, as for singularly movies, nothing tops Shawshank.
I feel sorry for all of you , guys/girls who rated this as 1 star (awful). I really do not think you could consider this as the worst or one of the worst movies you have ever seen.

Maybe it is overrated, maybe not , but STOP trying to lower its position in the Top 250. This is supposed to be a USER RATING , so if you loved it , give it a 10 , if for you it is an average movie , give it a 5.

I read some comments about this one , and heard someone saying : " ... it is a good movie, deserves 6 or 7 stars , but i gave it 1 star because I think it is very overrated ... " That's so pathetic ...

Once again , STOP doing this and rate the movie as you liked it !
Absolutely mind-blowing movie. Great script, direction and acting!

it remained in the laptop movie folder for one and half year.............. every time i started to watch it i felt bored for the 1st 15 minutes....eventually i started to watch it more than 15 minutes for the first time............... then the miracle happened.....i just finished watching this phenomenon in one sitting with nearly grasping my breadth full with emotions ushering in my veins and artery.......just on sentence requires to describe it """It is worthy to be in the 1st place of the top 250 over 20 years and so On,.......if you haven't seen it see it.if you haven't listened to it hear it.if u haven't felt it yet feel it.

Without a doubt, one of the greatest films ever made, little to no continuity errors, fantastic acting and a thrilling and engaging story that keeps you hooked from start to end.
This movie was inspired by the brilliant Stir Crazy starring Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor. As an essay on prison life, Shawshank Redemption fails on every level that Stir Crazy managed to succeed on.

Shawshank is nowhere near as funny as Stir Crazy. There is not a woodpecker suited bank robbery to be found. There is no Grossberger, no homosexual black man hassling the heroes, no silly mania scenes. There is nothing here that even remotely comes close to emulating its predecessor.

The obvious links to the original are still there: Morgan Freeman in the Richard Pryor role and Tim Robbins as Gene Wilder. However, Robbins and Freeman are nowhere near Wilder and Pryor in the acting stakes and we end up feeling disappointed at their lack of conviction (no pun intended) in the roles.

Wonderful touching story that will make you cry AND feel extremely good inside. STEVEN KING proves that he is one of the best story writers EVER.

Superb acting by Freeman et al. Wonderful narrative, music, cinematorgraphy and backward looking story that escalates throughout the film.

A work of genious, J

There is nothing to criticize about this movie. It is made as subtle and touching a movie can be. It never goes into emotions more than necessary. The music, the story, the acting, everything is perfectly orchestrated. It is delicate and beautiful in all the sense of the term. It is such a shame that Morgan Freeman didn't got an award, it would have been well deserved. Stephen King wrote again a masterpiece, like the Green Mile, from the same author and the same film director. Frank Darabont execute this story more in a tone that reminds me "Out of Africa". The prison is a character by itself, all the actors including the secondary roles are just perfect. Watching this movie remains us the true meaning of hope, and that everything is possible.

But what are you doing here? Rather than reading reviews, just buy it, rent it and see it. It is one kind of a unique movie that you will never forget.
The first time I saw the movie I was crazy about it .I did not want to speak to anyone nor do anything .I wanted to rise my arms and cry ---yes, just like what Andy did .It really inspires me greatly .

I believe it is a terrific film because it includes all things a film should have. The plot , the characters,the director,the spirits are all top.So I want to see it for another time .

Then I find out that I don't like the oaks which stands for power and strength .Why can't the letter just between two brisks. It's obvious the director wanna tell us something in a obvious way. But it's not serious,this is quite personal. I still know what I can get from this movie. The more I see it ,the more I get .

I know Andy deserves the happy ending ,will he succeed in the real world?

The Shawshank Redemption will go down in history as one of the greatest movies of all time, If not the greatest movie ever.

The films draws you in for the very first second and keeps your eyes glued to the screen until the very last second! Excellently written and the acting was a class above the rest!! Highly recommend
An UNDER-RATED movie?? Gimme a break! This is one of the most over-rated movies on IMDB! 8.7, what a joke! This movie is boring, plain and simple. You want to watch a movie 5 times so that you can put the pieces together and finally get it, fine. I'd rather watch a movie that was actually more entertaining than a jigsaw puzzle.
If someone tells me to describe a real, entertaining movie - that would be it. 'Real' for the lack of SFX is a true bless when talking about "The Shawshank Redemption". I become fed up with pictures that achieve success based on the splendid job of the SFX crew or the team responsible for the CGI effects. Film's purity emphasises the importance of the act. The actors are incredible; not a single minute could be considered a bad acting (well, at least I think so). 'Entertaining' for it makes you enjoy the time spend on it and once finished there are no regrets. I am not a huge fan of Tim Robbins but the movie undoubtedly showed his talent. Mr. Freeman stays solid as usual in his act.
Amazing, must watch for everyone! Simple but touching.

This movie is a life changer. It can change the way of how you perceive the life one lives in this world. It really is a movie which helps you for redemption. It always provides motivation and hope no matter how many time i watch it. It really deserves it's first place in imdb.



Well pure plain movie. Boring Dull No story at all. Plz I request all to rate 1 ðŸŒŸ to movie so others don't waste their time by influence by wrong rating.
When I watched this movie for the first time I knew anything about the movie, but I had heard that it was pretty good. So, not having any real expectations, I saw it. When the final credits rolled and the lights came on in the theater, all of us just sat there with our jaws hanging down on the floor.
When I watched this movie for the first time I didn't really know anything about the movie, but I had heard that it is pretty good. So, not having any real expectations, I saw it. When the final credits rolled just sat there with our jaws hanging down on the floor. Thrill that I have experienced in the end doesn't match with any of the actions films that I have ever watched in my entire life.
One of the best prison movie ever made. I can't imagine talking about movies without mentioning this film.
This is the definition of a what a Great movie supposed to be like!
Proof, along with _Delores Claiborne_ and _Stand by Me_ that Stephen King can spin a fine tale when he sets his mind to it. Even having read the book (this is one case where the movie is better), Robbins and Freeman's performances were so captivating that the ending still took me by surprise. Definitely one of the best.



In this movie Morgan Freeman has delivered his greatest performance in his legendary career. Awesome right? but that's not all.

Shawshank Redemption is without doubt the best movie of its decade and one of the best movies ever made. Killer plot, great directing, great cinematography, amazing acting and in the end you are left stunned, touched and you will fall in love with it. If you do not like this movie something is definitely wrong with you.

This movie not winning any Oscar is simply disgraceful.

In conclusion if you haven't watched this movie than you are missing a lot.
Steven spielberg never ceases to amaze with his movies
I cannot believe that this movie has rec'd the accolades it has. I thought was mediocre at best and at worst saccharin, predictable, neatly cathartic and only mildly believable. I think that if it didn't contain the rape scenes, it would have been so sweet that I would have turned it off before I regurgitated. This is not to say that I enjoyed those scenes - I didn't - but it appeared that it was Frank Darabont's sophomoric attempt at instilling some sense of prison reality into an otherwise boring story about male bounding. I personally would not recommend this movie to anyone.
I always heard that this movie was good, so I decided to check it out. And I gotta say, I was quite impressed. The tone, characterization, screenplay, etc. are all fantastic. Is it the best movie of all time? Tough call. But it is one of the few movies I can say is 10/10 stars.
Truly a masterpiece of cinema. This is definitely one of my favorite movies.
what an amazing and motivating movie never get bored at any part of it. the music is so amazing and have you in a great movie mode. the screenplay was perfect you can never be bored from it or feel that any part wasn't in its place. Morgan freeman as great as usual never get bored from him knows when to make you laugh and when to get shocked or excited. also Tim Robbins I can't forget him since I first watched his movie Nothing to Lose with Martin Lawrence and the great amount of laughing and sorry you feel with along the movie. this movie for me is one of the iconic movies over history which I have a good memories for it and loves it so much.
The best movie I saw everrrrrrrrrrrr rrrrrr rrrrrr rrrrrrr rrrrrrrr rrrrrr
Shawshank is supposed to be the greatest movie ever. It was alright to me.

I mean not much to say really. I've seen it too many times. I guess it's cool if it's your first time watching.

Not bad, worth watching

7 stars
Well directed & written. Each character is well played!

Directing, script is awesome, acting perfect. Film rocks forever
Haven seen movies that actually are a 10 - this is an almost 7. Eye-rolling bad acting by Robbins and the black guy (does he ever blink..?) - but the warden was very good. It took a long time to force myself to watch it, and I'm glad I did, but I would *never* sit thru this thing twice. Omg no.
This movie gives you unique feelings about you and your surroundings
Great film. If you like this, you'll love Virgins of Sherwood Forrest
Emotion, hope and justice all blend perfectly in this film. Quite simply, no other film comes close to this one in regards to screenplay, casting and plot development. No spoilers here - just a comment on a movie that can still move you to tears even after multiple viewings. Morgan Freeman delivers the performance of a lifetime. Everything else comes together in perfect harmony. This movie came out the same year as Forrest Gump which won the Oscar for best picture - Forrest Gump is a great picture but this one really deserved the "cake". Tim Robbins is AMAZING as Andy, and he supported brilliantly by a cast that one could only hope to see assembled again. This is one of those rare occasions where the movie actually surpasses the book for drama, suspense and flow. If you haven't seen this film, please do yourself the favour and watch it. I know you will not be disappointed!

"Get busy livin'"
This movie became my favorite movie of all time, before i had even seen the whole thing. Has this happened to anyone else? I had seen parts on TV and that was it. The day i finally rented it, i was practically jittery with excitement. This just tells you about my unique subjective experience with it. After it was over, I wasn't dissatisfied in the least. It is truly a great film all around. It is one of those things where part of me wants everyone in the world to see it, but another part of me feels like my personal experience with it makes it my own. I don't want to write an extensive review and put it under some kind of lens and analyze it. I'll just say that from that day forward, The Shawshank Redemption had profoundly affected the way I view movies and it his been the gateway into my current passion for films.
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
....................................................................................................................................................................................................
I have seen this movie and think it is very good, Tim Robbins is really good in it and Morgan Freeman as usual is great. It has a lot of original ideas and is deserving of much praise, however i really feel it lacks something that The Godfathers 1 and 2 have. They are just a different caliber of movie no offense to it, its very good. However Al Pacino in both of those films is as close to perfect of a performance as you will ever get. I really feel because it is 35 years old so many people of todays generation has not seen it, I am 20 and own all three and can appreciate the talent by Marlon Brando and Al Pacino in the first film and Al in the second with Francis Ford Coppola directing both. I understand that when someone sees a movie and they would like to rate it on this site its difficult to see all the other movies on the top 250, but when you are dealing with the top 5 its not that hard, see those movies and then judge.
i remember watching this years ago, i loved the setting of the scenes and to me it was pretty good acting. and if anyone is to go see a good movie, i highly recommend this one, with some people it may not be their cup of tea, but, if you want a good kickback with some popcorn and prop your feet up, and take the phone off the hook, and DO NOT ANSWER THE DOOR, DESPITE THE NEIGHBORS WANTING A OCCASIONAL CUP OF SUGAR, than yes, this is good movie to sit back and enjoy.
It is really a nice movie I have seen. In beginning it seems some boring but after one hour it change the atmosphere. It is well planned and seen are thriller. I never seen such a beautiful movie. The role which actor has played is memorable and very energetic. I recommend to see it all the movie likers. Must watch movie.
The Shawshank Redemption movie love it . ðŸ˜ŠðŸ˜ŠðŸ˜Š............................................. ........................................................................................
I really liked the movie I'm delighted with it.I thought about this movie
Shawshank Redemption is a good movie with great actors, a decent director, wonderful music and a very obvious plot. I think the movie would have been between mediocre and failure were it not for Robbins and Freedman.

Its ranking on the IMDb top 250 is a shame. It shouldn't be on a list with other such high caliber films as the Godfather and Gone With the Wind. I think that the re-release of the DVD is the cause of its illogical high-standing.

Don't get me wrong. Its a good movie its just not as good as people say. Worth watching especially if your a fan of either of the main actors.

7 out of 10


This Movie is the most amazing in the industry's history . The best in the way it shows sequence of the events . Morgan Freeman Played a remarkable role in the movie .... movie has the successful mix ever made of emotions anger , peace , mystery , hate , love , Betrayal and friendship ... this movie will always be milestone in the history of film industry .... View and full interaction figures and the absolute harmony between the team of the film clearly reflected in the article submissions .... The imposition of the spirit of the prison and the transfer of the wonderful scenes that way like a prisoner until the end of the film when liberated liberally of movie's main characters essence of success was felt throughout the film that he is no life outside the walls, but in some scenes .... it's a perfect work by the standards of the industry ....

Few movies allow you to feel as though youve been put on a riverboat in the middle of july as the suns going down, where you can see just how good you've really got life on the land.

The movie is simply a symphony of finely tuned instruments allowing you to feel the pluck of every characters heart strings as they wash through their own version of corrections.

Great movie!
I happened to watch this movie after taking a look at its ratings, I was like let's see what's all the hype about. After 142 minutes my jaw dropped and I said to myself "This is the best goddamn movie I've ever seen in my life.". This movie gives meaning to life by being a legitimate feel-good movie. "HOPE IS A GOOD THING, MAYBE THE BEST OF THINGS, AND NO GOOD THING EVER DIES." the best dialogue ever written in any film ever produced. I was so into the film even I felt his redemption, I had a smile on my face by the end of the movie. Overall: The Best, The most satisfying, A pure feel-good film.
Although it does represent prison life in the 1940s and Robbins does a great job , this movie failed to entertain me. The movie is very well done, but the ending is silly and predictable. I don't understand the hype .
Nothing in the history of the entertainment industry compares to this films wonderful, inspiring and completely unforgettable ending. The title of the film is the on criticism you could make of this masterpiece. If you talk to any group of people about "what's the best film ever made" you're almost guaranteed that someone in the group will mention this film.

The script is superb and both Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins really do make it a moving story of friendship, dignity, and most importantly hope. It's one of those films where you feel obliged to recommend it to everyone you know. Theirs something so special about this film and you shouldn't be allowed to talk about films if you've missed this gem.
Shawshank Redemption, based on a short story by Stephen King, is about a man named Andy who is sent to jail after being convicted of killing his wife and lover He adapts to jail and is planning something big - all through the film, clues are given as to what he is doing as he takes advantage of certain privileges he has.

He makes friends with people in jail, and goes through his daily life. Hope is all he can hold on to, count on, and rely on. Through years he figures a way to end all of it. The story fallows himself and friends as they try to rid themselves of an underlying feeling - a feeling of always being trapped. They hated the walls of the jail. They've grown used to them. And they love them. But not Andy.

Everything about this movie is amazing. Screenplay, cinematography,acting, production... its simply one of the best films off all time.
According to me "Shawshank Redemption" is very bad name. It is ver complex. People can forget this name easily.
Okay based on what is the greatest movie of all time. It didn't win best picture that year. None of the actors won an Oscar! Besides I have never seen a human who doesn't get old over so many years. I am sorry but I think bragging about this movie ruined its beauty.

Defiantly not a top 10 movie of all time.
No, this is NOT the greatest film of all time. I don't think you could pinpoint one single film as that but "The Shawshank Redemption" is one of the most powerful and moving experiences of the 1990's (other masterpieces include "Schindler's List", "Dead Man Walking", "The Piano", "Glengarry Glen Ross", etc.) "The Shawshank Redemption" is the harrowing story of a man wrongly convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. He is sent to prison to serve two life sentences. There he meets Red, who becomes his best friend. The film speaks loudly about hope and its unending importance in life and that is a lesson we too often forget. This film is a marvelous reminder, with remarkable performances by Tim Robbins and Oscar-nominated Morgan Freeman. It is beautifully written and expertly directed and a fine film in several aspects.

Regardless of whether it IS the greatest film of all time, the greatest film of the decade, or the greatest film of 1994, it is not to be missed for it holds wisdom and is great fun.
This film is a masterpiece. It manages to wrench the viewer through every emotion possible. With Morgan Freeman's ardent narration and Tim Robbins' masterful expressions, Director Frank Darabont has taken a short description by Stephen King and crafted it into something that deserves to be seen by everyone.

This is the greatest film ever made. Everyone already knows that. (If you haven't seen it, you are missing out on one of the greatest experiences you will ever have). I could write for hours about the masterful direction, the acting which challenged perfection, the incredible writing, etc., but I wanted to point something out that others seemed to have missed. This film boasts the best music I have ever heard in a film. Whoever wrote the music deserves the credit of being the man, in my opinion, who made this film what it is. I'm actually studying music as my major in college, with film as my minor. So I just wanted to tell everyone to notice the music next time you watch this film, and you will have a much more enjoyable experience. Every person who contributed to this film is brilliant and I worship everyone who had anything to do with this film.
Thought to be one of the greatest movies of all time and ranked 2nd on IMDb's list of top 250 movies ever created. When i first heard of this film and its general plot i wasn't too enthusiastic about watching it. I mean, lets get serious... yet another prison movie where someone is supposedly wrongly accused for a crime he did not commit... we've seen them all. However, i can honestly and proudly admit that i was beyond the shadow of a doubt, completely and utterly wrong. This is truly an amazing movie. With its own charisma to it, it leaves the audience on the edge of their seats, wanting to find out more and waiting for the plot to unravel further. It captures your mind and truly speaks to you. Of course, a great deal of respect must be given to Morgan Freeman and Tim Robin for their outstanding performances. This movie deserves to have its own genre. A MUST see movie and a personal favorite.
This is that type of movie i can recommend to any body irrespective of their likes dislikes the bestest of the best hollywoood has produced till now period the cast is good the acting is good the direction is good the pace of the movie is on point and the message they want to convey is loud and clear that is NEVER LOOSE HOPE tim robbim ans morgan freeman acting and the way they convey the story make this movie even more engaging so i will give this movie a strong 9/10 stars thanks
Days passes, locked behind the doors.Hopes blinking throughout. Fear of consciousness. Shawshank Redemption will be iconic for the entire society.
In my opinion the greatest film of all time. Acting - perfect. Pacing - perfect. Plot - perfect. Definitely a must watch for anyone.


It's the best film I've ever seen. It was truly an amazing film, it should be seen alone, and watched without a phone in hand.
In my opinion, it deserves to be in AFI's top 10 of all time. Just one of those extremely rare movie experiences. The highest compliment I can pay it is that every movie I have watched since Shawshank has paled in comparison. I've never been so involved in a movie from beginning to end. And the ending is so incredible it provides inner joy you can't even express. Gump was very good and won Oscars because of the hype and $$$ it spent & collected. But, Shawshank with no special effects or high priced productions provided better script, plot development, acting and ending than 99.9% of Hollywood films before and probably after it. Totally under-appreciated masterpiece..
Great!! good movie.......................................
It's not that the storyline is extremely complex or something which makes this film great. The characters and the acting is what makes this film extraoridinary. So this film is about a few fellas who are prisoners inside the prison. Their goal is to get free. The characters live on hope and that's why this film is so important, it's one of the best inspirational movies ever which shows that no matter how bad the situation is, you will still have always have hope. The ending of this film is pure work of art and beauty. Hell, the whole film is one of the best cinematic experiences ever.
The Cost of Bondage tells the stories of the world that two prisoners, Andy and Red, set up behind bars. Andy Dufresne is a young and successful banker. He is tried for the murder of his wife and his lover and is sentenced to life imprisonment. Shawsank Prison beatings, torture, rape, all kinds of situations are happening, but Andy is committed to life and optimistic. This attitude shows the people around him. When Andy opens his hopeful perspective, he convinces all prisoners that your bars are a bile-free life. Andy will also have a friend who will partner with these bubbles: Red. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, an adaptation of Stephen King, starring the film. In 1995, the film was nominated for seven Oscar nominations, including the best film nomination
An amazing tale to explain such a simple message. Be patient, work hard, work smart and what was looking impossible will make it possible by itself.

I've heard of this movie before i saw it, to be honest not a single disagree on the perfectness of the actors or the production or the story or the dialogue, man!!! when i saw it i agreed and supported it to the last very minute, its one of the best movies i ever watched and it really deserve to the 1st top movie in the American cinema's history ... I'd like to thank all the people who worked in or share in it, i give it up for their great effort that will last in every one's memory for his life time. I'm sorry for my weak expression as I am impressed and my words may fail me, I did my best to deliver what i think. Hope to see new production with this kind of quality and this kind of mastering in every single detail.
The greatest movie ever made..! Period. Pure and simple, it is what every director hope to achieve. The film will keep you glued to your seat if you know what it means.It will bring tears to your eyes. It will make you think how you have lived your life so far...or in fact how you have wasted it. It will teach you the value of freedom which we enjoy without giving a second thought. And it will leave you with a sense of happiness which you will experience only rarely. The performances are simply mind boggling, be it Tim Robbins or Morgan Freeman or countless others. And it is difficult to believe this was the debut of Frank Darabont as a director.If you haven't already seen it... please do, otherwise you are missing something.
I like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like itI like it
The first time I saw "The Shawshank Redemption" I was only 12. At the time I was amazed at how a movie could present so much emotion. As I have grown, my taste in movies has also. Still, I rank "Shawshank" as my favorite film, the one that I could watch every day for the rest of my life. If you have not seen this film, I pity you. Do not just rent it at your local Blockbuster. I implore you step away from your computer, go out to the nearest store, and buy this movie. Not only do Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins give performances that will make you question your humanity, but you will most definitely learn something that will benefit you as a person. So, if you are yet to see this film, you must (in the words of Andy), "Get busy livin', or get busy dyin'."
One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those are the films people talk about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's also a story for freedom. Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and Robbins are majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other. Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first moment they make contact with one another. There is also a wonderful performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.

He shines when it is his time to go back into the world, only to find that the world grew up so fast he never even got a chance to blink. Stephen King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and excitement. It is an extraordinary motion that people "will" be talking about in 50 or 100 years.
The greatest movie ever made..! Period. Pure and simple, it is what every director hope to achieve. The film will keep you glued to your seat if you know what it means.It will bring tears to your eyes. It will make you think how you have lived your life so far...or in fact how you have wasted it. It will teach you the value of freedom which we enjoy without giving a second thought. And it will leave you with a sense of happiness which you will experience only rarely. The performances are simply mind boggling, be it Tim Robbins or Morgan Freeman or countless others. And it is difficult to believe this was the debut of Frank Darabont as a director.If you haven't already seen it... please do, otherwise you are missing something.
It is a masterpiece,you can watch it one time,in middle you may feel that it is loosing but overall it is a good film
Me encanto la historia la recomiendo ver, cuenta una gran historia
This movie deserves to be the best.. No movie made till the date has beaten it
awesome movie...the story is highlight and the way Tim Robbins acted is simply superb...one of my favorite movies...!!! I really loved all the characters of the movie and all the drama involved in it. this is one movie that took over my mind for many days. It created a stir worldwide and made me think that movie's can be made in this way also.so I suggest movie lovers to watch this movie and not to miss a single scene in this film.hats-off to the cast and crew of shaw shank redemption it is one hell of a movie which will be remembered at least for a century.lets hope we get to see more films like these and enjoy the drama and enthusiasm which was provided by this very film.
I would recommend this movie to everyone. The acting, directing, cinematography are all top notch. The cast are so good that its hard to imagine anyone else in those roles. If this movie does not make you laugh and then at, the very least, make you cry a little bit, then you have no soul.

The greatest movie never to have won an academy award - no doubt. The greatest movie of all time - possibly

If you have never seen this movie you are lucky, because i will never again be able to see it for the first time.A truly heart-warming and inspiring piece of cinema. Awesome
There has never been anything like it before and I don't know if there will again. I'm not going to say any more about this film, it has already been said, but just suffice to say that I am glad that Forrest Gump won best picture in 94. He shines when it is his time to go back into the world, only to find that the world grew up so fast he never even got a chance to blink. Stephen King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and excitement.
I felt very emotional with the story during my teenage. When I rewatched in my 20s, I understood the brilliant script and storytelling of the movie.

During my 30s, I am totally addicted to epic nuances of the movie and hidden gems. I have no idea what I might find out in my 40s or 50s!
This is simply the best film ever made. It just goes to show that you don't need mutli-million pound special effects, and a number one theme tune to make a good film.
Where do I begin. This movie has everything. An exciting and interesting plot. Even more interesting characters. An amazing story from beginning to end. One that anyone can recognize and enjoy. I watch this movie once a year during the Christmas holidays and every year it gets better. I can state without shadow of doubt that Shawshank redemption is my all time favorite movie. I might add also that I consider it the greatest movie ever made.
This movie is flawless in my opinion. Every situation and character are so intricately woven, there is no wasted celluloid here. Every aspect of the movie, from acting, directing, and all factors that make up a masterpiece are in top form. It is truly a testament to the spirit of man and how each one of us handles what life throws at us in our own way. If you are feeling down, give it a watch and it's hard not to be inspired. I find more meaning with each viewing. It's one of the few movies that I've not grown tired of watching again and again. Once again, in my opinion, it's one of the best!
The first time I saw this movie I loved it. But I loved it more and more every time I saw it again. If you want to have a good and entertaining time watching a movie, buy this movie.
One of the nicest films ever and immortal in memory
It's amazing how long I could not watch this movie. However, I became interested in them only after reading the book. And the book is very good. However, the same can be said about the film. Yes, there are some nuances ...
i'm sorry for watching this great film by a pirate video cd, that's the only way i can approach movies like this, because i live in china. in this place, you can only see a hollywood movie like "true lie" those having radical actions in it. i watched this movie when all my family were sleeping, for none of them likes this movie, they have no patience to continue watching movie like this with no action. and i really touched, in some extents living in china is somewhat like living in shawshank, you need hope and endurance to keep on, i got a lot from this movie, thanks to the director to tim robbins and morgan freeman,and the vendor who recommend the video cd to me.
One interesting thing about this movie is how quickly it seems to pass. The movie could have continued this story for another 2 or 3 hours and I don't think it would have lost my interest. I think just because normal people like this movie is no reason to lower its rating with the 'movie critics'. The best movie ever??? Definitely. Everything else pales in comparison.
This film is amazing! It holds such emotional power. There is such meaning in it, and it is all captured beautifully in this movie. The fact that hope does in fact still exist! Tim Robbins, and Morgan Freeman are an amazing team in it. I loved it! Its one every movie lover, or just anyone should see!

This film was good, don't get me wrong, but in a million years it would never have occurred to me that this film would rank # 1 in the Internet Movie Database's top 250 films [ I hope this doesn't last - it's april 1999]. It is ridiculous. It is a good story, has good acting/character development, medium cinematography/music/everything else etc.....

As enjoyable as any other half decent film - but not number one in MY top 250 - probably not even in my top 250.
The GMOAT?????? LMAO Prison dramas are a dime a dozen what makes this different from any other prison drama?

It is unoriginal and cliched.

And I dont like Stephen King.

He wrote a horrible little story called IT.
One of the best films IÂ´ve ever seen. In the end I cried like a baby. DonÂ´t miss this excellent movie.
A wonderful film, truly one of the best ever made and deserving of its place among the top films. There may be problems but the clever story line and brilliant actors will distract you from that. Tim Robbins has a good role as Andy Dufresne, the banker convicted for the murder of his wife and her Lover. Morgan Freeman has an absolutely brilliant role with his portrayal of Red, the experienced prison Fixer, in an example of excellent casting. The film shows the corruption within the prison system and has excellent characterisation. The idea of leaving prison is questioned throughout the film, as the characters wonder how beneficial leaving prison will really be. The film is certainly quite violent but the storyline more then makes up for this. The ending is delightful to watch but I won't spoil it. You should watch the film yourself.
This is the best movie of all time. It has a great cast in Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. This is the greatest movie based of a book I have ever seen. Every character filled every role to the best they could and they all did great. When you first watch this movie you think the story is about Tim Robbins character but when you watch it a second time you actually see that its a story about Morgan Freeman. I love this movie and always will. Watch this movie its the best there ever was. Also Tim Robbins should have won an Oscar for his performance in this movie. I give this movie ****/****. This truly is the best movie of all time, it is definitely better than The godfather.
This story truly is an emotional piece of art and show's a lifelike drama of a mid 20th centrury American prisoner and his friend's along with the struggles of injustice . It made me cry in the ending. This is a masterpiece on all levels .
Wow! This is a great film, one which surpasses anything I or anyone else could ever say about it. Truly one of the best films ever.

Like a beautifully crafted French wine, this movie keeps getting better and better with every passing year. Every time I have viewed it over the past decade (and it must be at least more than 20 times by now), I have found newer shades, subtler indications, and deeper meanings. And it has amazed me like very few have.

* No overacting * Humour in the drab hopeless environs of Shawshank * Method in the madness of running the scams from inside * The complete secrecy maintained for 20 years (not even Red knew!) * The best that a highly-educated intellectual could do inside such a prison * What a great actor the Warden turned out to be - totally despicable! * What a bunch of speakable quotes.. what a bunch! * Totally recommended for any young person - students especially * HOPE TRULY IS THE BEST OF THINGS - a message that shines through
I love this film but it has simply been blown out of proportions.
The acting is top-notch, the dialogue is superb, and even the cinematography only serves to highlight the first two. This movie never fails to bring a tear to my eye. The tears start about 10 minutes before the ending in anticipation. I've never used this word to describe a movie before, but it is beautiful.
What is this movie is doing in the top ten? Its a good movie. By good I mean - you go to see it and you walk out saying - that was a good movie. Then you may watch it again because you remember enjoying it the first time. On the third viewing you are beginning to tire of it and the characters seem more contrived and you begin to see how the script has some flaws. Still - all and all - its better than most. A great movie (and there are many) is a movie that no matter how many times you watch it you marvel at the script - the performances - the music - all the things we love about the movies. The Shawshank Redemption doesn't come close. Well made, good performances, but not great and not deserving of being on ANY top ten movie list of all time.
A masterpiece. No other words has to be said. A pure original masterpiece.
This movie is simply the greatest. Anybody can relate to the message of hope and the importance of freedom. If this movie can't inspire you to live your life to the fullest, I don't know what will. And I think all fans of this film will agree that the ending of this movie is the greatest. I must have breathed only three times while watching that. And critics complain that it's long. All the great movies are though. Anyway, whoever reads these comments and hasn't seen the film yet, go rent it. You will not regret it.

Exceptional - Directing/ Exceptional- Screen play/ Exceptional - Writting/ Exceptional - Cinematography/ Exceptional - Acting/ Exceptional - Plot/ Exceptional - Characters/ Exceptional - production Design/ Exceptional - Sound.

Though I really enjoyed this movie, never would I agree that it is best film ever. It's powerful and full of heart, but it lacks one thing which is extremely important in a good film: originality. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were excellent in this film but their relationship is much like the relationship between Clint Eastwood and the librarian in "Escape From Alcatraz." The involvement of the library, the old coon who dies (Doc), the brut who is a threat (Wolf), the hole, the oppressive warden, and the escape in general all come from "Escape From Alcatraz." Though "Escape From Alcatraz" is not as powerful and emotional as "The Shawshank Redemption," it is a brilliantly done film and has the originality which "Shawshank" lacks. Though I do not want to belittle those who worship "Shawshank," I would suggest that anyone who has seen it should rent "Escape From Alcatraz." Then you may think twice before calling "Shawshank" the greatest film ever.

'The Shawshank Redemption' is perhaps one of, if not the, perfect film. Every other "great film", or any film for that matter has it's pros and cons. Most motion pictures that are as well received as this have plenty going for it, very few against it. While I feel there are films out there with better pros; the pro to con ratio of 'The Shawshank Redemption' out-stands any other film film ever produced.

I can't begin to describe every amazing element of this film. Obviously the performances are exquisite, the directing is exceptional and the score is extraordinary. The cinematography, in particular, struck me. Roger Deakins is a master with light and framing.

I will watch this film again and again and remember it as one of the greatest films ever made. This film truly lies within the sweet spot of cinema.
Amazing Film. Very Good. Very Very Nice. The Shawshank Redemption(1994)
Amazing movie - great direction - professional actors - not overrated it deserve to be where it is. This movie comes is my all time favorite movie list.
A great film which makes you think abot the most important things in life
The problem with this movie is that it is to ordinary. It seems like the movie is just a cheap feelgood flick that has an ending that is easily predicted. I didn't care much for the characters and the narration was pretty annoying. I've read the book and it's a good adaptation. See it if your a Stephen King fan or like Dramas.
Best movie ever made. Based on a Stephen King short story. I've seen it at least 20 times. It never gets boring. It's just overwelming and sorrowful. It makes you sad, angry and happy at the same time. Never forget, there is hope. Believe in your dreams.
I thought Shawshank was a gorgeous movie, wonderfully shot with beautiful production design. That said, I have a hard time watching the film. It drags-on for too long. I think the filmmakers were aiming for deep-thought provoking pacing, but I just got bored. The film moves slowly just so you can see how beautiful it is; personally, pretty pictures are not enough for me.

The movie is the best prisons movies but i guess it needs a little more good writing
I am happy to know that I am not the only one who thinks this is one of the best movies of all time. It's my personal favorite. It shows the determination of a person to live his life. How he works for years on his escape tunnel. The subplot of the parallel life outside of prison of Brooks and Freeman's character is excellent. I don't think any part of the movie is bad, not even avarage. It's perfect from beginning to end. The only probable flaw I see in it is that it makes criminals look better than they actually are, but that's the point.
Many people may be imprisoned by their own cages! No light, no tomorrow, no hope! Maybe you will sink because of this, but also may break through it, defeat it, and finally win the self sublimation! This movie seems to tell us that! Every time I watch it, every time I feel touched, I can have a lot of hope!
There's not much to say about this masterpiece, it's spectacular in everything. Very entertaining and touching. This is a movie that you need to see before you die.
What an excellent movie!!! This has to be one of the best of all time. Morgan Freeman is excellent as always. Tim Robbins was superb. I've always believed Robbins was a decent actor, but he superceded any expectations I had. The movie is a real feel good movie. I recommend it for anyone over 15.
This movie was a great adaptation of a great novella. Unlike many other movies made from books, this movie captured was almost an exact match.

A great commentary on how a person's environment can make them do strange things. I think Andy said something like "I wasn't a criminal until I got to prison."

Great movie!
This is very awesome movie rtdfgcvtrfd t4efdgcvrtfd rrefd
The story's quite plain, the acting is OK but nothing really over the top, even though the soundtrack, the quality of the shots and the atmosphere really stood out! I think it's for obvious sentimental reasons that people like this movie! The good guy takes a lot of crap but wins in the end because he's smart!! There are way better movies than this one and I really can't understand why so many people rate it 10!! 10 equals perfection and very few pieces of art come close to it!! I think 7 is a very high rating and this movie probably doesn't deserve more than an 8 maximum!! The masses don't necessarily appreciate subtle art and want to be entertained, that's what the movie industry is about! Still, this movie was quite gay! Way too much emo and way to predictable!
This movie is jus the best of all time. Acting , directing , writing , ending, all of this in one movie.
Okay, i am obviously in the minority here, but i would not place this movie even among my top 100. Nevertheless, the Shawshank Redemption is a good movie and solid entertainment, filled with a compelling story, good actors and an accurate script. But i honestly can not see why this movie is appreciated so well; the cinematography is not that great and i have seen many more emotionally involving/uplifting movies as well, just think of The great dictator, The celebration (Festen), Leaving Las Vegas, etc.. 7/10
I don't know anyone who dislikes this film. It's an absolute classic every time you watch it 10/10!!
I'll keep it short and sweet. The cinematography along with the storyline, paired with the perfect cast make this one of my favorite movies of all time!
Best movie of all time for a reason, even after more than 20 years nothing have come close to it.
Was a great Movie !! I love the story and the actors were fantastic. There is so much to say about this movie. But look, seriously, look and say it is not a great movie from beginning to end. Of course a good soundtrack also makes a great movie, so the soundtrack also has to be mentioned. The Movie Picture is very good. good angles of shooting, always transmitting us the space inside the prison. or rather the space that we have not. And finally, check out this great movie. they repented and were left with a better perspective for life. See the movie, enjoy and learn! To finish just saying that it as a great movie, oh wait, i already said that, no problem its to highlight the idea.
As a younger viewer who wasnt born when the movie released, I can by heart say that movieproductions has gone downhill. Im not pointing out that all movies we produce today are bad, but that in 25 years of evolving in technology and having good actors, writers etc. No movies would stand a chance to being as good as this was. This movie shows the true art of directing and storytelling.

Its a kind of movie that got me thinking, learning and at the same time connect emotionally with the characters.

I pat myself on the back for going on IMDB and hitting the top rated movies of all time. If I didnt, I wouldnt have had the chance to view this masterpiece.
What a movie! It was probably my 2nd or 3rd Hollywood movie when I started watching movies. Morgan Freeman was exceptional in his character as always though Andy Dufresne could have done better. A simple yet mesmerizing plot, wonderful cinematography and a memorable climax. This movie packs everything a cinemagoer desires. What I love most about the movie though is the message it delivers. "HOPE". Hope is the thing that drives us forward, Hope that we can carve a better future for ourselves than our past, than our present. Without hope, there couldn't be a meaning to existence.
This movie is gold, i really liked and even more knowing is from the genious Stephen King... This movie has everything, we have mistery, suspense, drama, i really loved this film !!!
Oh come on 2nd best movie ever, I don't think so. It's unrealistic and overly sentimental, the people who voted so high can't have seen many films. By all means watch it, but Papillion for example, is far superior, who can forget Steve McQueen's red rimmed eyes and pasty face as he catches bugs, and crushes centipedes into his watery broth to get nourishment in that incredible portrayal of hardship and determination. I wouldn't put Papillion as the 2nd best film of all time, but it has to be the best Prison drama. Watch Shawshank and you'll enjoy it as a lightweight entertaining feel good movie, but there are so many classic films better than this.
If you like crime or prison films watch this. Has the highest film rating on IMDB (2020 February).
I could re-re-rewatch this every time. Must watch!
Based on the Stephen King's book. It made me think about a lot of things.
It's pretty obvious that this movie got to the top thanks to its publishing date (1994). IMDb became a viable site in 1994 and this was one of the best movies of that year. From there on - inertia. Why 6 out of 10? ClichÃ©, Waaay tooo much. That's why IMDb should be ashamed of its algorith. Strike it down..

Very very weak. There is practically nothing in the entire film that surprises us in any way. If the purpose of the film was to be edifying, frankly, I saw nothing useful, neither moral nor spiritual. And it's not because I'm hard at heart; on the contrary, I have a good heart and high conservative moral values. But I finished watching this movie and I felt me depressed and upset by the waste of my time. In fact, I already got used to not giving credit to the high ratings of IMDb users.
Salvation in Shawshank begins with a mysterious and enigmatic atmosphere (the result of Frank Darabont's decoupage and perfect atmosphere) and the arrival of Andy Dufresne (a first-class banker accused of killing his wife) to the prison location. By creating a narrator and a relative change of perspective and throwing the burden of narration on the shoulders of the rejectionist (Morgan Freeman), he invites the audience to judge Doferrin and watch his character from a greater distance.
Jsuudueuueieuururueiurjrhhrhrhheueiejhrhrurujrhrhrujrjrjrjjrjruruwjbeheuueieieiiejrjrjr
this an incredible film this movie was make feel the happiness this unbelievable 20years dug in the jail without no body know and abbreviation this is a great movie and this is form a few great movies you will see it in your life and is to be enough the writer was the greatest writer in the world Stephen king Tim Robinson give all he have in this film and Morgan free man he give unforgettable part in his Lief and how was believe the bad and strong officer at the end crying and they take him to punshid him above he did and Tim Robinson pushed the administrator of the jail to suicide after he take all his money this movie i will can't forget it for along time he will be in my memory for ever
It's not just a movie, it's hope, life, death and trying to survive.

Tim Robbins smirks his way through this cheap rip-off of the >"Count of Monte Cristo". The anti-Christian bigotry is too much >to stomach -- the murderous warden wears a cross, thumps a Bible >and utters fundamentalist platitudes. Morgan Freeman is very >solid tho
This movie is one of the best movies of all time. At first the title+the poster of this movie might seems boring and uninteresting. Once you start watching this movie, you cannot stop. This movie will inspire you to not give up in your life like what Andy Dufresne said "Get busy living or get busy dying".

This movie is the master piece of art. The flow of the story, the editing of each scenes, the acting of the actors, and everything else in this movie are perfectly combined together. Shanwshank Redemption is a must-see movie.
It's the best movie I've ever seen in my life. Without a doubt, this movie along with Gladiator are the best in history.
Nice film i cant speak english but nice, yes nice the best
I've read the novella from "Different Seasons," and feel that Frank Darabont's screenplay was an excellent refinement of King's story. It pretty much sticks with the original plot while eliminating some portions which didn't add much to the story as a whole. The only part I wish they would have included (that they didn't) was Red's tales of other breaks at Shawshank Prison, if only for the novelty of them. Regarding the movie alone, I thought the grand aerial views of the prison combined with Thomas Newman's score (especially the 'Stoic Theme') were quite wonderful, almost breathtaking in their scope and power. I would have to say this is by far Tim Robbins' best role to date while it at least is among Morgan Freeman's top three cinematic performances. I have seen this movie several times, and although I'd say the first viewing is the best, I never tire of experiencing the story of Andy and Red, their story of hope.
I have no idea why this rates so highly. The whole premise is completely unrealistic. Its an OK prison film, but even Escape from Alcatraz is much better.
This is certainly a good movie, with universal themes of freedom and adversity etc etc, but... I've seen plenty of movies which were more artfully made than this one. There is nothing revolutionary in the directing. The novella by Stephen King is practically tailor-made for a movie adaption, and it seems any capable director could have made a good movie from it. I think the only reason this movie is #2 on this list is the sheer amount of people who have seen it and voted. The other truly great movies near the top of the list don't pack the same mass audience appeal that Shawshank Redemption does, nor are they shown on TNT 6-10 times a year. Movies like 2001, The Seven Samurai, or Lawrence of Arabia, for example, would bore many of the people who love Shawshank Redemption, and I personally consider those three I named and many others to be far better creations than the Shawshank Redemption. Perhaps we should take a poll of TNT viewers on the best movie of all time - I'd bet Shawshank Redemption would place first, with The Blues Brothers coming in a close second.
The movie is about an accountant who is accused of murdering his wife and her lover and as a result is sentenced for a life in prison. The movie is filled with deep meanings but unfortunately it is very boring and directed in a very lame way. Plus the musical score is preety bad and does not spark any emotions from you. In this type of movie an emotional and memorable musical score is very important but somehow the filmmakers did not seem to care.
Great movie. One of my favourite movie of all time. A prisoner life is shown as the movie . Especially we also experience that .


It's a fantastic film based of the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption. I adore this film, truly. Morgan Freeman, Tim Robbins, Frank Darabont as a director. What's not to love? Maybe not THE BEST film ever, but it's up there.

The novella is very good, if a little sentimental. The film is a masterpiece, though, that I actually prefer to the source material. Anyways, it's a must watch. Timeless.
I simply do not know how some people out there voted this movie anything less than a 6 or 7, but a small percentage had the audacity to vote it a "ONE"! There are always that small percentage. Sometimes I believe people vote down other movies in some attempt to get THEIR favorite movie into a certain spot. The fact that people put that much effort into doing so amazes me. I'll take the time to comment on a movie and give my 2 cents worth of opinion. This movie was a classic the day it premiered and the 2nd place showing overall demonstrates that without fault. My hope is those who voted it down somehow obtain a clue.
The Shawshank Redemption is amazingly powerful story about two friends life in prison. The characters Andy and Red are fundamentally good men in a hostile environment. This is a quietly narrated movie, by Red (Morgan Freeman) and gives an up close, raw depiction of lives served in prison and the ongoing trials of several inmates. This film is a compelling story of redemption.


This is an excellent movie, whether it is direction, or cinematography or editing, each and every frame looks brilliant. In fact it is a trendsetting film and I would like to watch it again and again. And last but not the least the background score is also awesome. The background music and the story are weaved together in such a way that it doesn't look that these are two different things. It's like they are made for each other. Each and every character of the movie has given an unforgettable performance and I appreciate each and every technicians' and artistes' hard work which they have put into this movie.

A classic movie that you can watch over and over again. Brilliant performances by all actors and actresses.
Best movie ever, I enjoyed it a lot. The Shawshank Redemption received positive reviews on its release, particularly for its story and the performances of Robbins and Freeman, it was a box-office disappointment, earning only $16 million during its initial theatrical run. Many reasons were cited for its failure at the time, including competition from films such as Pulp Fiction and Forrest Gump, to the general unpopularity of prison films, lack of female characters, and even the title, which was considered to be confusing for audiences. It went on to receive multiple award nominations, including seven Academy Award nominations, and a theatrical re-release that, combined with international takings, increased the film's box-office gross to $58.3 million.
I should have watched this one many many years ago, when I heard of it for the first time. This movie is amazing!
This film is based on one of my favourite Stephen King novels (albeit a 'novella') The original book contained four long 'short stories' one which became 'Stand By Me' (another great movie) and 'Rita Heyworth & The Shawshank Redemption' which has been (full marks to the director& production team)lovingly rendered into a true cinematic masterpiece. Staying true to the printed word, it follows the prison life of Andy Dupree from sentence to freedom with care and sympathy, never revelling in his hardships or flouting his attempts at beating the system. The film concentrates on his will to survive and his hope for eventual freedom. Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman were born to play their respective parts in this film. If neither had ever made another film, it would not matter because this film will always be their mark in movie history. No major action sequences, no breathtaking special effects and no outrageous subject matter. Just a great movie, based on a great story, acted convincingly with great skill by two men who could really be the best of friends the story requires them to be. Superb.
this is one of the greatest movies ever made. I have watched this movie over two dozen times. I never tire of seeing "Andy Get Them". the lack of awards that this movie recieve was a true travesty. Tim Robbins performance ranks as quite possibly his best and considering who we are talking about that is saying alot. Morgan Freeman talent overshadow the fact that he was not like his character in the book. The rest of the cast though for the most part nameless is extraordinary. Chief among them though is Ron Perlman. There cant be anyone who didnt feel a great swell of joy when they heard the chess piece go through the poster. This is one of the greatest cinema moments i have ever witnessed. This film taps into you and elicts a great emotion. This is something few movies have or ever will do, but it is what makes this one of the greatest films ever made.
One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those are the films people talk about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's also a story for freedom. Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and Robbins are majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other. Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first moment they make contact with one another. There is also a wonderful performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.
IT WAS AMAZING AND WONDERFUL BUT I WANT WATCH AGAIN
I have seen this film so many times over the years and each time I watch it, I find something new. It's a film that takes me through a ride of emotions from tears of sadness to tears of happiness. It's a tale of hardship and friendship. The casting and dynamic of the actors is first class. This will always be my favourite Movie.
Saw this movie after seeing imdb top rated movies and doubted what s wrong with those people who consider this movie as a masterpiece. the movie is so plain i understand it is a old movie and a feel good one but keeping it number 1 above pulp fiction or prestige movies does nt make any sense

Shawshank is nothing more than a fairy tale. It tells us as much about what prison is really like as Pretty Woman tells us about what prostitution is really like. People like fairy tales, so both these movies were very popular.
Hands down one of the best movies i've ever seen. I was glued to the screen for the entirety of this film and invested fully in to the story within. Amazing.
I saw this movie about a year ago and I haven't been able to stop thinking about it since. Everything about this movie is so perfect and if I'd have to choose one favourite scene it'd have to be the scene where Andy and Red enjoys a beer on the rooftop, Even though this movie is a bit old I still didn't think about it at all while watching it.

I ussually don't give movies such high reviews but this one definetly deserves a 10 out of 10!
On of my all time favorite movies. Its a great story line with great talent.
Frank Darabont is no Orsen Welles. This is a manipulative piece of garbage which has successfully fooled many people.

DONT BE A SHEEP !! THIS IS A CRAPPY MOVIE ! PERIOD !!!
Not a spoiler but a ? Well the whole movie was compelling but noted something forgotten how good it was when i first saw it 25 years ago but perhaps a missed fact or? Well when they couldn't find the gun thrown in the river to identify and compare to crime scene, yet they found bullets and broken glass where his car was, wouldn't those bullets at his car be different from the ones at the crime scene ....would have proved his story but other than than, unless he was deliberately framed by someone but it doesn't even touch on that...


Too slow. Concept is not as good. Below average movie. I am not able to force myself to watch again.
It was shocking to know initially that this masterpiece was not accepted by audience when it was released.Well it was too ahead of it's time.It shows real character development of Red...a unwise hothead kid to a wise man who accepted his wrong doing.What I like the most was its ability to tell an extraordinary story in a very pleasant and simple appealing way.I like the simplicity of the storytelling process.Its a masterpiece no doubt in it.Its a great story.
When I signed up for the IMDB they ask you what your favourite movie is? Shawshank rose to the top of my mind immediately. This film brought hope and inspiration to most hopeless and soul robbing of environments. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are fantastic! Does Steven King have more stories like this one?

One of the best films I've ever seen is a masterpiece.
A great movie about both good and horrible people

Who can say they watched this and did not become immersed? Everything about this movie is askew, as it gives enormous insight into our lives, the system and negative reinforcement. There are some wonderfully cathartic moments, as well in this surreal story about a man betrayed by a skank of a wife and a system that rewards profit and power over the truth. Yet, he knows much, and what he knows has been fed diligently to the same powers that oppresses them. With a very carefully thought out plot that takes the time to flesh out each character, and actors equal to the task, The pigs are disgusting and the bible thumping freak such a menace. I would hope this incredibly original film is watched by even more people.
Well what else can I say about a Masterpiece! 10/10

No words needed to describe this movie everything is composed really beautifull just watch
I really enjoyed watching this film with my family and friends,can recommend it.
If you are above 12 then I make sure that you heard this name once in your lifetime and if not then no harm but if you want to watch a true performance then just watch this one with patience.
Fine, its great but hey, it's not the most perfect movie in the world. in fact it was a little bit boring and slow, the events are not connected so much, I'm sorry but you guys are just overrating. However, this movie has one of the best scenes in cinema, and i really loved it. but, is that it!! this is what the movie got!! just one scene!! it's really overrated, no kidding.

This movie was great! I loved the character development throughout the movie. It's great to know that the film was later released a second time for a well deserved box-office success. The box-office flop from its initial release definitely doesn't even come close to the master piece this movie is! Definitely one of my top 10!

The Shawshank Redemption is a Beautiful, Touching film that can not be described in words how truly wonderful it is. I mean, come on, what can I say about this film that hasn't already been said? Everyone I know (almost everyone) loves this movie. My sister (at the moment) has never seen this movie! I beg her everyday to watch it with me but she keeps putting it off. She has NO CLUE what an amazing film she isn't watching. The impact that this film has had on me, along with everyone else who has seen it, is massive. This film makes you realize how wonderful life is and how great people are (even those in jail). It defines the word Hope better then Webster's dictionary does.Also, it is in my opinion, the best film adaptation of a Stephen King story.

10/10

Why this film is so highly rated is beyond me. First of all, where is the redemption? The characters do nothing that can be construed as redeeming (except for the one played by Gil Bellows). They simply survive.

Someone who also doesn't like the film compares it to a fairy tale because it's unrealistic. This is an insult to fairy tales. Fairy tales are beautiful and deep, with complex motives transmitted throughout the centuries, the traditional good-bad dichotomy and a clear moral conclusion. The Shawshank Redemption is dull, with some basic and carefully explained symbolism (because apparently we're too stupid to get it otherwise) and, contrary to traditional notions of morality, the hero's sidekicks are some nice criminals. Of course, prison staff are cast as the bad guys and their boss is portrayed as a hypocrite speaking of the Bible yet acting in an un-Christian manner. Can you say anti-Christian bigotry?
The Shawshank Redemption is honestly one of the greatest movies ever.I was too young when i watched it for the first time and i didn't get much,so i watched it again some months ago.At the end i was left with a feeling of freedom and perhaps redemption.This movie gives you hope,which in my opinion is very importand.It is a movie about human dignity,about always trying to be a better person.The Shawshank Redemption is meant to change the person that watches it.I give it a 10,although it deserves much more.

Apart from these,Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are absolutely excellent. If i had to describe their performances with one word that would be overwhelming.

Let's hope more movies like this come out.
I have seen Shawshank Redemption for more than 10 times and being a critic i have noticed couple of things that really make the movie little dull and listless.It is not to say that the movie is not good. It is pretty good, with all the technical merits - But it doesn't merit a ranking of 9.3 at all. Which is why you can see i rated it pretty low, as compare to God father or God father 2.

One of the factors affecting my rating is the speed of the movie and the plot,it is little diverted and you are not quite sure to understand what the guy is up to. Though curiosity is pretty good in any movie, but this time around curiosity has killed the cat and made the movie little boring.

So in my opinion, Shaw shank Redemption is good but not GREAT.
I only need to write a few words. This film made me laugh, cry, cheer and feel warm inside. Not a lot of films are capable of doing that. The acting is brilliant and so believable. It's quite a long film, but rightfully so. You are actually left feeling like you want more. Even writing these words down makes me want to get it out and watch it again. It is always a good time to watch this film. You will not regret it.I'm actually surprised it hasn't got a full 10 stars.

To the director i would say, Thank you for making this film!

If you haven't seen it, watch it, right now. It doesn't matter what time it is...go!

seriously go now!
This has to be one of the best, if not the best, movie I have ever seen. Combining the masterful acting skills of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, Frank Darabont blends empathy with brutal physical and emotional violence to the best possible effects. The chemistry between Robbins and Freeman is wonderful, whilst clinical, precise and realistic writing from Stephen King ensures that this is one of the most worthy candidates for Movie of the Decade. If you only ever see one movie for the next 10 years, see this one.

The shock is the main thing in the movie (three shocks ) and the teller sound of Morgan Freeman make you melt in it Thank you too much Hollywood for making this major movie God bless you all

I love this movie. It truly is one of the greatest movies I've ever seen. A timeless classic. It gets the full 10 from me. It sends us numerous messages and has hidden meanings. Its so beautifully laid out and filmed. It teaches us a lot about ex convicts also. Yes, they may have did wrong to go to prison but some can't handle the outside world the way they used to. It has all the emotions embedded in it. Funny, sad, happy, deep all of those emotions and more. I would definitely recommend this movie to everybody I meet. Its beautifully shot to capture the essences of every character and their feelings and emotions. The writing is spectacular. As a writer myself I like to look at the writing and acting. I'm also an actress so those are the two qualities I focus on. The story line is extremely important. If it doesn't make sense then it ruins the movie completely. The acting in this was sensational. The storyline was genius. Definitely worth the full 10 out of 10 rating that I am giving it.
An incredible movie, with an incredible cast and crew! Well Done!
This movie is all time best.The Shawshank Redemption has all feeling (hope,angry,happinies etc.).A masterpiece

This film has got to go down in history as one of the best films made. Heart warming story. Enticing characters and beautiful friendship.

It features Morgan freeman who is a legend within himself.

All round great film. I would recommend you to watch it, I tell you too.
Ok sue me for being different but I'm not sure how this slow paced film rose to the top of the IMDb scoreboard.
Nice movie and keep it up..

I have never seen such an amazing film since i saw Shawshank Redemption.
It seems as if every movie has something about it that is unbelievable, and this movie does have one part, but except for that it is a 10 all the way which is what I rated it. Excellent story line, acting, drama, humor, relationships... you name it. A 10 all the way.
Yep...this is it...an absolute masterpiece that is timeless
I finally saw this movie. I wanted to rent it after seeing this is the number two favorite movie of all time. But I could never find it in the video store or library. Of all places, I finally saw it on television! In the age of predictable plots, I could not predict this movie at all until the very last few seconds it reveals the events. We watch movies for the truth and there are lots in this one. There are some valuable lessons here: never lose hope, always do your best wherever you go, persistence, persistence.
1994 - year for the classics. The best movie ever.
The shawshank redemption is the great show to illustrate hoe people according to their ancestry can be enslaved free or conversely in freedom captive shawshank redemption is a great show to depict.
I remember the first time I saw this movie. It was on the big screen. Let me say something about how movie-goers in my country watch their movies at the cinemas. They always leave before the credits at the end of the movie is up. But it was different with Shawshank Redemption (S.R.) Most of the audience just sat on although there were not many because it was a working day. All who stayed on for the ending credits were obviously moved by the movie. I stayed on to learn who wrote the story. As I left the first thing on my mind was "I've got to get hold of the novel from which this movie is made. Some years later the VCD version is in the market. I have watched it in the comfort of my home several times and find that I still enjoy it at every viewing. I am puzzled how a movie this good could let Forrest Gump sweep all the price. It makes me doubt the credibility of the Academy of Performing Arts. This is a story about Friends. When one has a true friend, no matter how bad the situation is it makes life tolerable.
quite simply, the shawshank redemption is my absolute, long-standing, favourite film, and i know it always will be. it is a timeless masterpiece that transcends genres, a film that can appeal to everyone with its simple message - hope is important.
Simply put, this was one of the most brilliant, unbelievable films I have ever seen. I had never read the Stephen King novella, but in a way I'm glad I didn't. I honestly can't think of a single thing I would criticize about this movie: the acting was amazing, the dialogue incredible, the score moving. I knew a lot of people who hadn't seen this, and I recommended it to all of them. Most of them came back and told me how much they loved it and they couldn't believe they hadn't seen it sooner. This is one of those movies that will be remembered forever by those who have seen it. Those who haven't are definitely missing out on a superb piece of work. I enjoy it more every time I see it, and can't believe it didn't win the Oscar (it deserved many!) when it first came out.
This movie is the best example of that. It is solid, good movie, fine story, has a " optimistic message about hope" and has a happy end. Actors are fine, nothing special and storyline is somewhat naive. By no means this is 9.3 movie. It is simply overrated, it has incredible hype and lots of people put it on their "best list" by default. This is 7.3-7.4 movie at best. It has many flaws, story is not dramatic enough, it is not real and raw. Story is a bit naive also, Tim Robbins is so-so at best. It is worth to watch, but nothing more.

I can't believe I waited this long to watch this movie. But I saw it was going to be on tv tonight so I sat down and watched it. It was time well spent. The acting was excellent (especially Tim Robbins), the storyline was interesting...everything was great. As another reviewer mentioned, the time flies by when you're watching it. When the movie finished, I looked at the clock and was amazed that 3 hours had gone by. I'll certainly watch this movie again.
People love it because they expect to beforehand...it's a bog standard prison movie.. nothing special..passes a few hours if your bored but the sort of movie u only need watch once .
Just rewatched it in 2020, such a wonderful story behind the scenes and great performance by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins.

Kind of movie to put on the list, for your little childs to watch when they'll grow.

For me, The Shawshank Redemption is very relaxing and different from other movies, which can be watched an rewatched with friends, family or alone.

Everyone who did not watched it yet, definitely should do it.
I am reviewing this movie soooo late but i watched it late and this was my best decision that i made of watching this movie. It was amazing. Hands down ðŸ‘ðŸ¼
I'm 12 years old (don't tell my parents) and even though it doesn't have a full storyline and it's a bit long but I didn't get bored one bit. Great acting and great story. It should of won best picture.
I don't understand why this movie is so popular. Yes, it was an interesting movie, and it was a good movie, but it was not spectacular enough to receive all the praise which it has. The acting was good, and the plot original, but it was still a rather ordinary movie. Apparently, I'm the only one with this opinion...



I watched this film two times. I liked the idea that Andy Dufresne story is the one that impacts Red to change. I find the narration very much needed in the story, and this story is to me about hope and finding your way into leaving a mark on this planet.
One word amazing! so so so great love this cant wait for more
This movie, which I have seen at least 15 times, is my pick for the best movie of the past 20 years and certainly among my Top 10 Films of all time. It was a wonderful story with one of the best endings I've ever experienced in a film. Morgan Freeman fully deserved his Oscar nomination but, conversely, Tim Robbins was robbed of his. His portrayal of Andy DuFresne, a convict lifer wrongfully convicted of killing his wife, was nothing short of amazing. How the academy could have overlooked him in their voting is beyond me and everyone else I know that has seen the film. This is the only film for which I have never heard a bad comment and it got rave reviews from everyone I told to see it. If you haven't seen The Shawshank Redemption, you've missed one of the most wonderful and powerful films of all time. See it today! You'll thank me.
I watched this movie so many times growing up, it's just flawless.

There's something very unique and special about sitting through a movie that feels effortless to watch, and endlessly rewatchable, that by the end has you in tears and wanting to get up out of your chair, hug those closest to you, and just go fully live.

In my opinion Shawshank deserves its number 1 spot, and I doubt that any movie will ever be able to topple it.

Good and Motivational story telling. Performances are good and characters are portrayed very well.
This movie takes place off in fantasy land somewhere. Absolutely ridiculous. Anyone with a brain who knows how the real world works would not fall for this fairy tale. Go watch "Escape From Alcatraz". That's what this is ripping off so badly anyway. Alcatraz is the original. I did almost add an extra star for Tim Robbins though. You look beautiful darling!
Easily the best movie I have ever seen, and I have seen it a lot.

However there is not much that can be said about the film that has not already been said. Even though I have seen it more than 100 times and once saw it 4 times in one day the best thing I can leave you with is simply this:

Some extremely good movies are not only famous for there stories and acting but also their soundtracks. Inception would be a great example of this. Shawshank however is so extremely brilliant and captivating that you barely realise that the soundtrack itself is one of the best ever made. Seriously have a listen to the soundtrack on spotify and rewatch the movie. For me it elevated the movie to new heights, which should not have been possible.
This film is quite simply fantastic, great performances, great storyline, well directed and produced, my favourite film ever.
It's the most overrated movie of my life,not even one of the, it's "the".it has some good actors and dialogues and that's all this movie has to offer, its utterly boring,too long for such a stupid story, it deserves no more than 6* at all by no means.i have stopped taking movie recommendations from everyone who suggested me this movie

To long and we all knew what was going to happen. I think there could have been a good hour and a half cut.

This was one of those instant classics you will always watch again, and possibly learn new things or notice new things as your experiences in life grow cause we are forever learning new things!!!!
Though the movie is good, it's a copy with little modifications. Watch the orignal, Birdman of alcatraz.

Beginning in the late 1940s comes this gripping, poignant, one of a kind prison saga from director Frank Darabont. Freeman is brilliant as a slick but cynical inmate who's spent most of his life within the cruel prison system of Shawshank; Robbins is riveting as a hotshot Maine banker-turned-new inmate with whom he forms an unbreakable bond, and comes to admire for his will, determination, and endless grasp of hope that allows him to transcend his turbulent surroundings. Their deep, emotional bond is the focus of this long, arduous, and compelling journey that showcases friendship and the power of the human spirit unlike any other film of its time. A remarkable, in-depth, and unforgettable story that is sure to be remembered for years to come. ***Â½
This movie is hands down one of the best movies ever made. It has good acting, good writing and good everything really... Now i am not going to give any spoilers, because that would ruin your exprience if you are going to watch it for the first time which i doubt. What this movie has most of all is iconic moments and heart breaking moments. For the rest i won't say anything but i highly recommend this movie!
This movie is not made this is crafted and it is so much beautifully crafted that you feel mesmerising after seeing it. Entire movie will keep you spellbound. There is no doubt why the movie tops the chart in IMDb. For me this is one of the best movie I have ever seen. Beauty redefined.

Amazing from start to finish. If you haven't seen this movie yet, please stop what you're doing, and watch!
I absolutely dare any critic, movie buff, casual movie watcher or ANYBODY with a pulse to be able to watch both shawshank redemption and green mile and not admit that Stephen king is a true master story teller!! He is right up there with the greats William Shakespeare, Mark Twain, Hemingway, Tolkien,etc. And I have to also include Darabont has a true genius as well. It's rare you can get a TRUE 10 in a movie rating let alone 2!! But both are MASTERPIECES and examples of perfect flawless films!! All I can say is thank you for the Absolute legal steal of 10.00 on Amazon I purchased BOTH movies that I will watch until the bluray wears out, THANK YOU UNIVERSE!!!!!! Oh I almost forgot, WATCH this movie NOW!! Just in case you've been on a deserted island.
Just a comment about something that I didn't see anyone else mention recently. (I didn't read all nine billion comments on this movie) I thought that the character "Red" was a white man in King's story. Now, there's nothing wrong with casting Morgan Freeman in that part, and he was great in it. (He was cast as President of the United States in "Deep Impact" and carried that off very well. I thought it was kind of neat to cast a black actor as President and make absolutely no reference to his race throughout the movie. Would that we could be that way in reality.) But TSR was set in a particular time, (1947-1968) and I find it hard to believe that there was utterly no racism in a Maine prison in those days. Sort of undercuts the realism that seemed to be done so well in every other aspect of the movie. Just a minor quibble. Everything else I have to say about TSR has already been said. Grade: A+
Beautiful film about captivity and hope that helps you survive, this movie is very hard and raw and hard and for this you stick to the screenfrom the beginning at the end, it's impossible to get bored, and the ending is fantastic ande is the fantastic conclusion of a very deep movie.
Few movies can grab the soul like this one. For me, every time I watch The Shawshank Redemption, I remember the music. I remember the framing, how each scene is perfectly constructed and put together, displaying the lives of the criminals. Every oily moment with the warden, every frightening vision with the `Sisters,' and of course, every point of pontification by the venerable Andy Dufresne. While I do not consider this the greatest movie ever, it is awfully close o the top.

The performances by the likes of Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, Clancy Brown (who was doing Dr. Pepper commercials at the time) and Bob Gunton as Warden Norton were all exceptional. One thing that always keeps me coming back is the score by Thomas Newman. While he has based his entire style off this memorable score (listen to The Road to Perdition and Shawshank back to back, and you'll see), the subtle movements and piano keys turn this into one of the best films of all time.
It's nice. It's somewhat clever. Just too formulaic with the "noble prisoners" struggling against the corrupt and evil prison system. It would be nice to see a movie that actually thought ILL of prisoners (as we should). Same aul, same aul.
It was the greatest movie I've ever seen watch this masterpiece i dont even feel that 2 hours.
The Shawshank Redemption is a great film, because it's a touching story about the life in a terrible jail.Andy Dufresne has been accused of the murder of his wife and her lover and has been sentenced to 20 years of jail altough he was innocent.Then begins his slow adaptation to this new and hard world.But he will meet Red, a very quiet and clevar prisoner and begins a new friendship which will help them to survive in this universe.With a lot of patience and intelligence Andy will prepare his escape. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are really extraordinary actors: they give to the film a great strength, dramatism and suspense.

Leaving this review for the checklist thing. Great movie, easily one of the best ever. Certainly the best Stephen King movie.

Well this one was good but I think it is too overrated
Only a few words come to mind....one of the best movies made in my lifetime. Amazing all star cast. Emotionally charged Well acted Well written Well directed Great score Keeps you engaged throughout You fall in love with the characters. Morgan freeman is phenomenal. It makes you realize how important and precious life is. It also teaches how power can be corrupt. The friendships forged in the story are very well crafted by the actors And through plot development. While the main focus revolves around Andy's character played by Tim Tobbins, you are easily affected by the side stories of those that become part of his world. All in all it is an ultimate feel good movie...an ultimate rise of the spirit in the face of tragedy and life dealing you a bad hand of cards. One of my top 5 movies of all time!

I just can't believe it to ok me that long to watch this movie. What a fool am I.
I consider this movie as one of the most fantastic and joyful movie to watch. It touch a social problem that few movie directors and producers took the risk of doing like the institutionalized thing. All of the stories developed in this movie even if they are all related of the main character, every own little story is very interesting and full of emotions. This movie contains good drama, a different comedy insight. I think I have seen this movie at least 6 times and I just don't get tire of watch in it i think every time i watch it i found new things.I highly recommend to spend time enjoying this amazing movie and just a piece of advice is take the time to read a little bit the reviw and find no one bad.
One of the few cases of the movie being better than the book in my opinion. An absolute classic that never gets old.
Interesting study of wrongly-convicted Robbins sent to jail and abused by evil warden and (initially) fellow prisoners. As film develops, Robbins turns tables on everyone. Understated performance by the lead; Morgan Freeman, as a fellow prisoner, actually drives this flick. Didn't see where this differed from half a dozen other good prison movies, but that's why they make all those flavors. Very satisfying resolution.


In years to come the Shawshank Redemtion will be seen as a classic and rightly so. The is a wonderfully moving story about a bonding friendship between two men who are locked up in Shawshank prison for differing reasons. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman deserve any praise that can be heaped apon them because i feel it is them more so than the story that hooks you from the first time you meet the characters.You feel for them and you hope that thing turn out for the best . If i had to critisise the film for anything it would be the lack of an ageing process that the men go through but that is nit picking. A film you could watch over and over again. 9 out of 10
'The Shawshank Redemption' is a prison film and a good film about characters. The film is about a man who is put into prison for murdering his wife, a crime that he did not commit. He ends up helping the prison guards out, and some complicated issues arise. The film is about characters, loyalty, revenge, and freedom. This film is one of its kind; it is almost spiritual as it touches on many different aspects of life. The story is thoroughly engaging as are the characters, and the different situations that the characters are in keep the viewer guessing and hungry for more. This film is a rare gem that lives up to its expectations.
I don't know why it took me so long to see this film but I finally did. I've seen a lotta films in my day, but I think this is definitely one of the top 10. Indeed, it's rated by the viewers as the #2 film of all-time on this database, just behind The Godfather. This film is a powerful story of hope and despair, love and hate, institutionalization and corruption. There's not much violence in it, although there is strong (homo)sexual content. This story takes place almost entirely in a maximum-security prison. The story would be powerful even with no "brand-name" actors in it, but Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins both do a magnificent job in this film. This is a film that should not be missed!
A flawless film. But every time I watch it I still get upset that Thomas Newman didn't win the Oscar for his flawless score. And all of his others as well.

The movie that made me fall in love with Zihuatanejo, that utopic paradise where people can live peacefully and free. One of the greatest movies ever made and one that really deserves its number 1 spot. Because I personally believe that everybody will find their Zihuatanejo watching it. Emotional, fantastic, perfect.
I watched it in 2016 i'm here after years can't find a better movie
This film is about an "innocent" man who goes to prison for the murder of his wife. In prison he makes friend with an inmate and their friendship develops over several decades. He learns how to survive. Endures long hardships. And accepts responsibility. There is an incredible reversal in the final half hour of this movie, and I remember when I watched this in the theater - I have never ever seen a crowd in a theater cheer louder in my life. This is one of those movies you can watch a million times and it never gets old.
Somehow in the middle of this film I felt i was in the jail and at the end I am escaped.

I think this is one of the best movies I have ever seen in my life. It shows you how human nature actually is 10/10
A great movie, a drama in the life of a citizen wrongfully imprisoned, an excellent plot that grips the viewer from start to finish, and masterful performances by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins and a whole cast of great supporting actors, it pays off.

Film viewed on July 25, 2021.

The Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt one of the best film's of the 90's. Morgan Freeman has another outstanding performance just like he had in Glory. The plot was as good as ever along with the dialouge. The music was nice and the atmosphere in the film felt like it was in the 40's, 50's, and 60's. Beautiful full of triumphant acting. This is Frank Darabont's best movie, even better than The Green Mile which I also though was really good. This is one of the most recommended films of the 90's and you definitely will enjoy it. I mean come on guys, it even got in the 250 movies of all-time with a 9.0 and it got #2. Excellent film!!

10/10!!
This has got to be one of the greatest films of all time! Absolutely flawless! The acting, the story line, the scenery is amazing. Amazing directing. Just a superb production. Sorry if I'm extra with the praises but this movie will not waste your time. I saw it several years ago and can still watch it til this day and be entertained. First review on IMDb.
This movie so great and enjoyable. It has a gripping story. Not regret watching

The prison film is an outstanding masterpiece. But whether it really belongs to the best films in film history is debatable. However, the fact is that like no other, the movie inspires many people across generations. The representation of a lifelong friendship between the two prison inmates, played by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, is outstanding. Above all, however, the interplay of right and wrong, which is not always easy to separate behind the walls of a prison, is worked out here too deeply emotionally. It was rewarded with seven Oscar nominations, and rightly so.
just read the title. Tough I think it's a pretty decent movie (but not as good as the Stephen King's novel) i just can't understand why it should deserve to be ahead of everyone else in the top 250 (with the exception of the godfather). To be honest i don't even really think it should be in the top 250. Yeah, I know you Americans love the happy-ending Vaseline-flavored subtly homosexual jail movies, but all this hype it's too much anyway. Come on, this can't be better than Welles, Kubrick, Kurosawa or Scorsese (or not even Carpenter and Fulci in my humble opinion) So I give it a 1/10. This is not a critical valuation of the movie. This is a political statement.

This is the best prison movie there is by far, but it's a lot more than that. Concepts like institutionalization being portrayed and taught, relationships between characters, and ground-breaking scenes with great directing/cinematography, memorable lines, this movie has all of it for sure! I can definitely see why this is rated number one!
Nothing to say, really. Everything is very good and the plot just overwhelm everything else. Just amazing.


The Shawshank Redemption (1994, Dir. Frank Darabont)

Announced guilty for the murder of his wife, Andy Dufresne (Robbins) is sent to Shawshank prison to serve a life term. Becoming friends with Red (Morgan), Andy tries to adapt to prison life, and goes on an unforgettable journey with Red inside the prison walls.

Brilliant, Powerful and Moving storytelling brought together by everyone involved. Robbins and Freeman showcase their full acting talents and provide amazing performances in a wonderful classic that deserved top mark in best film lists.

Get busy living, or get busy dying. Â– Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman)
The Shawshank Redemption was a true masterpiece. This is a true masterpiece
I had not seen this film again ever since I first watched it in a movie theater 26 years ago. What a brilliant and outstanding piece of cinematic achievement.
The only reason I rented this title was because I've seen its rating in the IMDB. Well I was hoping for a thrilling experience, a work of art at least. C'mon you raters! This is simply a good film! It's ok to watch, but if you were hoping for something better than good, then you will be disappointed. There are so many better films than this! Now, talking about the film, Tim Robbins was not the ideal match for this role and Morgan Freeman was ok for a nice old man in a Midwest bar, but definitely not for a murder convict. In general the atmosphere in the jail was laughable. So many good men, you would believe it was the Sunday mass.
Arguably Tim Robbins' greatest performance to date. Coming from someone who tends to appreciate movies set behind bars, this movie is every bit worth 10 stars! I was astonished to find out that this is adapted from a great Stephen King short story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption.

Before writing this review, I sat down, with a bowl of popcorn and a cold one (Pepsi), and watched this great movie again. It has come to my opinion that there is absolutely nothing wrong with this movie, or the way it was put together. Everyone prisoner should be allowed to watch this movie, and hope that their warden would allow them to keep after the books, and then use that position to break out. But, after all, this is Hollywood!
This movie (The Shawshank Redemption) is not the best ever. What are people thinking about? Of course it is better than 1 star - but 10???? It is a nice movie, with a fine happy ending. But to make it number one in the world, is a bit too much. There can be only one number one - and that is without a doubt The Godfather.

Please everyone, try to consider your votes again - I hate to see that things are not in the right perspective. If IMDb should be accepted as the world real Bibel for film lovers, The Shawshank Redemption can't be our top movie. A lot of other movies are far better. Among them; The Godfather part 2, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, The Fight Club, The Prestige, Once Upon a Time in The West - and many more. Please change your votes........
Excellent movie surely one of the best I have watched.
A great film that is better with the amount of times you have seen it. Morgan Freeman is a brilliant supporting actor in this film. A must see movie
This is the most overrated movie ever made and being above The Godfather and The Dark Knight on the best movies of all time lists is a joke.
One of the most wonderfully perfect movies of all time, you wouldn't want to change a single frame.

Paul
I don't care if there are some poor souls who would like to belittle this film. Just think of these misfits as beyond redemption.Its a very good story with a great plot twist.
This survey proves that the American Film Institute's "Top 100" and Hollywood's "Academy Awards" are nothing but a fraud. Like many others, I did not go see this movie in the theater because Forrest Gump was out at the same time, hogging all the publicity. What a shame. This movie should have swept the Oscars for best picture, best acting (lead and supporting), best directing, best screenplay....etc.

I simply could not believe it when I saw that the AFI Top 100 did not include this picture at all. It is simply the best film ever made. Given the highly different tastes of individuals, it is rare that you can ask friends and acquaintances what the best movie that they have ever seen is and consistently hear the response: "The Shawshank Redemption." Everything, every scene, in this movie works. With the exception of special effects (this film does not need them), this is the movie all others should be measured against.
Amazing. Classic with good reason. Hope in the face of adversity.
Such a boring Movie

Saw this because I came to know this has IMDb highest rating

Can't guarantee if it releases in 2020 instead of 1994, if it would still be rated so high.
It's a beautiful story of friendship, disguised against the cruel backdrop of prison life.

Emotional, harsh and pure genius!

Should be oneverybodies must see list!
I watched this movie years ago, and still loved it.
Good movie that doesn't require a heroine. Classic movies are classic because they are all doing the same thing-letting you appreciate the beauty of hope from different perspectives.

This is a great film. Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt the most uplifting and touching film I have ever seen.
The Shawshank Redemption never made it to the big screen in Sweden, at least not what I heard of. And I really can't understand why. It is excellent. It's a calm and unsettling story of a man's (Robbins) life in jail, of the friendship between him and his fellow lifer, Red (Freeman) and the disgusting life in a corrupt prison in the 50's and 60's. Excellent performances, great camera angles and one of the very best endings of any film.

Stephen King wrote the story. Why should I be surprised? His novels and short stories make for great films - but most are turned into crap, like It. This one, however, is one of the best movies there is.
Best Motivational movie of all time... Gold standard for Patience and Give it all...

Absolutely fantastic and worth a watch. Measured with its storytelling, compelling and twistful this is brilliant, the greatest rated film on this database and for a reason, highly recommend
Throughout watching this movie (The Shawshank Redemption), I found it really enjoyable saying it wasn't my usual cup of my tea but I found it amazing.
Before watching any movie, I do read reviews here and this is correct one as far as stars go. It is really engaging in a sense that although it is long, does not bore you. It is emotional and you are bound to shed a few tears. I don't know many movies with two main actors, but their roles here are very truthful to what may be real persons experiences. I loved the movie also because it does give you hope that injustices done by others to you will be - one day or eventually - 'paid' in a way or that something good is waiting for you after the hard times. Anyway, a story you can not simply not love. I may see it 20 years later, but it is universal movie. Go and see it



****

Starring: Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, and Bob Gunton.

The story follows Andy Dufresne, a man wrongfully accused of murdering his wife, but he is really innocent. He befriends a few prisoners, and then finds a way to escape the prison.

The movie is one of the greatest movies of all time. It has every single element that makes this wonderful.

Very highly recommended.

I finally watched this movie today and I should have watched it way sooner. This is probably the most interesting movie I have ever seen; It has a very intriguing plot and there isn't any dull moments. You will feel so connected with the characters who were portrayed very well I got to say. Its a disgrace this movie did so badly in the box office. You should definitely watch this movie, even if you're not into drama movies because this a very intriguing movie.
Certainly a high-quality production, but hardly the best movie of all times, according to IMDb users. Not even the best filme of 1994, I'd say. I've been favoring, for instance, along all these years, the following '94 releases: Middlemarch The Lion King The Deep Blue Sea Wyatt Earp Death and the Maiden Tom & Viv Prince of Jutland Forrest Gump Ed Wood and Poirot: Hercule Poirot's Christmas.
I think this movie is clearly a 10. To call it the second best movie of all time might be a bit over the top. However, it is impressive that it has got almost 120.000 votes. Anyway, I thought it was really interesting. Tim Robbins is a very good actor and so is Morgan Freeman. Anyway, there is one thing that annoys me, and that is the focus on what one might call "transgression". I mean the warden and sadistic prison guards - all this is a bit too far out I think and works to the movies disadvantage. The love of transgression is always followed by some kind of sentimental prejudice. However, that does not damage the movie as a whole. It's really an amazing story which keeps you guessing till the end.
I watched this movie for probably the third time last night. I am still fascinated at how it shows that patience, wits and doggedness can overpower brute force and injustice even after twenty years. The movie ends on a happy note, asserting that hope is a good thing, perhaps the best of things, and it does give me hope personally. No evil, no injustice can last forever.
The best movie I've ever seen. I've seen her more than twenty times and it's always perfect. On the 10th year anniversary DVD edition Frank Darabont claims that the movie has helped people through divorces and losing love ones and so on, just see the movie and you'll understand why.

The scene were Andy Dufresne finally gets out of Shawshank and he's standing in the rain and raising his hands is one of the better scenes in the movie history. I've got that poster up on my wall. It's amazing how you feel brightened when you see that particular scene.

Try seeing the movie a couple of times, and then reading the book which is written by Steven King, and then seeing the movie again. It pushes the movie up to another level and you'll like it more thereafter.
Beautifully written, acted and directed, The Shawshank Redemption is a wonderful reminder of the value of life and the freedoms we sometimes take for granted.

The filmmakers do a great job of showing the passage of time and creating investment in each of their lives, especially Andy and Red. Over the course of the film, you grow to love and respect the characters through every experience.

The score is fantastic, the tone is poignant and the film as a whole is a raw lesson in storytelling. Ringing in the new year with this classic might be a new tradition.

Additional note: If the language is too coarse for your liking, check out VidAngel!


I saw this film in 2020, this movie is not just a movie, there is nothing more I can write about this film. This film will always have an impact on my life.

The Plot is so good, i just watched this movie and my mouth was open the whole entire time.. So good
No one can take away your hope in your mind. 19 years' waiting in the jail. Nothing is impossible.

The movie showcase an intense passion to crave for freedom. The man utimately regain control of his life. Every single man on earth should live a life as the male lead does. A very encouraging film.

A beautiful film. I must have seen it twenty times. No joke. Thomas Newman's haunting musical score still touches me with every viewing. This is one of those films that plays on TV almost constantly and yet you still find yourself watching it every time. I guess its because of its epic scale and like a great painting you can find some new in it each time you view it.

Frank Darabont does a great adaptation of Stephen King's novella from his 'Different Seasons' collection. I guess the theme of each novella in the book relates to the different seasons. The quote 'hope springs eternal' is at the preface of the Shawshank section of the book and if you've seen the film you know hope is the movie's central theme.

Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins make a great pair in this, probably the best on screen pair since Redford and Newman. See this film and you may become a Shawshank fanatic like so many other people.
The Shawshank Redemption is truly one of the greatest films ever made, if not the greatest. Robbins and Freeman are spectacular, giving amazing performances as the prison-bound pair. The character development is wonderful, between a well-carved emotional depth and meaningful dialogue that builds so much out of each role. Sound and editing additionally help to expand upon the feature's already unbelievably great plot. Truly not one moment was wasted throughout, the movie proving constantly intriguing. Not to be outdone, the concluding sequences are highly satisfactory and are a fitting end to such a heartfelt experience. The presence of the various impactful themes constructed is the cherry on top. Altogether, The Shawshank Redemption achieves all it sets out to do and more.
Its the story of hope. beautiful i can just say this about the story this film really had a lot of lessons for your life just see it and enjoy

Hope is a wonderful thing, and so the quote goes. This is the first movie that really moved me and made me fall in love with films. Perfect cinematography, acting and directing gave a picture that was abnormally much better than the book.

Who said Citizen Kane? Who said Casablanca ?. You can keep your mouth shut, because friends, this is the best movie in history. I can't understand how in 1994 a movie (Forrest Gump), also very good but inferior to this one, won several Oscars, including the best film. Also that year was also Pulp Fiction, another that is above Forrest Gump. The fact is "The Shawshank Redemption" has it all. A great script, based on the novel of Stephen King (the best novel of him, without a doubt), a relentless direction like that of Daranbont, a spectacular photograph that is accompanied by an impressive soundtrack, the editing is excellent and the performances are all magnificent, highlighting especially the always brilliant Morgan Freeman. My friends, if you really want to see good movies, do not hesitate to see this movie, you will love it, I loved it and it will remain, at least for many years, my favorite movie.
It's not the easiest thing in the world to describe with words how perfect THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION really is.

Well, let's try. It won't take long, read other comments for closer details and views. This is a fantastic unforgettable movie where a banker (Robbins) gets his life changed, when he get a double life-sentence because of the murder of his wife and her lover. The first years gets to be a pure hell, he gets harassed, and he doesn't fit in. When he meet Freeman and his pals and starts a friendly relationship the movie starts up. Memorable and entertaining movie with big lifts by most of the fantastic cast. And this is coming from Stephen King?

10/10

This is a motivational story about a group of people in prison. It shows them going through many different conflicts. Most of the guards treat them badly and often abuse the inmates. The ugly realities of prison life are realized in the first half hour of the movie. There was strong acting on all parts. It was expertly shot too. It deserves all of the praise it has received. It's been near the top of IMDb's top 10 for years and it's showing no signs of slowing down. It's very moving and it has a lot of character development. It perfectly represents all the struggles that the characters go through. Also, the movie is highly brutal. Especially near the beginning. This isn't for anyone who doesn't like brutality but it's rather fitting in this movie. The way it combined brutality with a highly memorable story makes it something special. It touched me in a way that I cannot describe. Without any doubt, it's the best drama ever and one of the greatest movies of all time.
I'm gonna start like this: The movie touched me and I think it is great, but it does have flaws.

First off: Good production, well casted and great acting, one of Freeman's best roles and setting, camera, costumes, props etc. have a high standard.

I think the plot was good, but for the most part predictable, nothing surprised me, still a smart and touching prison story. Yet I caught myself doubting some parts of the happenings and sometimes the production looked too slick.

I don't think it's a 10 since there are small things I would've done differently, giving it 9/10 since it's still a great movie.
I wouldn't even take the time to write a review for this other than the fact it is #1 on IMDB. This movie is a pretty average movie with good build leading up to a good ending. And that is the only word I would use. Good.
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are going through.

The story of a man who gets jail for the crime he didnt do. He is straight as an arrow but inside jail he has to become the crook to get along. He is brilliant, intelligent, humble and with hope, which is a dangerous thing. He uses his intelligence to help the officers inturn for the favor to his friends. The friendship he makes with his group. Then he finds out he can win the case but things turn turtle and you cannot imagine the surprise it pulls right before your eyes! Everything is brilliant in this movie! Treat to watch.
Superb movie , good relaxation movie, climax is too good , movie goes very realistically,awesome movie
Masterpiece :-) If you don't love Shawshank, chances are you're beyond redemption.
I went in to give blood- the staff was watching this.. needless to say several orange juices and cookies later I was still at the blood bank, laughing and crying with the staff. This is a remarkable movie for its subtlety- I like the fact that no one ever knew Andy was digging a tunnel- I like how he tells his friend to look a certain place if he ever gets out- and I like the message of hope for those who feel hopeless. Stephen King outdid himself with the story and Robbins and Freeman do wa wonderful job with the script they were given. Just to see the words " brooks was here" and then "so was Red" add those little touches that makes a movie great. A movie that deserved more accolades.
This movies has everything you know about movies should be. A amazing storytelling, fantastic characters in movie.

Morgen Freeman and Tim Robinson is atruly unique actors.

A masterpiece of art to make into movies. I love everything from start to finish.

Tim Robbins plays innocence man send to jail for his wife's murder. Morgan Freeman plays his closes friend in jail and forming an unlikely pair of buddies. They never give up the dreams of escape outside of prison. There are certain points you miss the first time watching the Shawshank Redemption. This movie does more that entertain, it make you think how something is planned.

This movie touched me, but I'm finding it hard to review.

It is the story of a man who, after being convicted to life in prison for the murder of his wife and her lover, still manages to find hope and a reason to live. We see him first come to grips with the way his life is, then we see him begin to see how he could change it for the better.

It is full of memorable characters who each have something to share with us if we are willing to listen. It will make you angry when an injustice is revealed, it will make you smile at a small bit of good fortune and even the hardest hearted person would have a hard time not shedding a tear during certain scenes.

Redemtion is possible and may be right around the corner!



The narration kind of spoils it at times by reminding it's a movie. But it's Morgan's voice so it is okay.
It was one of the best films I saw and it should be seen with a very special understanding and accuracy

A very good movie. It is possible that the men (adult males) will find this movie more appealing than women (adult females). Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give very good performances. In particular, Morgan Freeman excels like he seems to always do in his movies. I can never get used to the type of character that Morgan Freeman plays because of his versatility of roles he has played. The movie, although not fast paced, draws you in and keeps you interested. I could have sat through an additional 20-30 more minutes of film. However, the movie appears to be of sufficient length. Quite to my surprise, the ending was not entirely predictable. Older children (10+ years) would also enjoy this movie. This is not a chick flick so boys don't bring your date to this one. OK to share with long term girlfriend or wife though. This move does not inspire romance nor was its intent. A good film to sit down with popcorn.

This very sophisticated and beautifully storytelling, the way a great movie is supposed to be.

When I saw the trailers and clips from this movie when it was first released, I thought to myself; "Yeah right, another self-conscious Oscar-nominated prison dirge with it's heart fastened firmly to it's sleeve". I expected it to be another "worthy" movie like CHATTAHOOCHEE or the usual 80s telemovie types. It wasn't until I sat down and watched the tv release that i really got involved with the story.

I particularly like the way the story has heart and feelings, but is not sappy or pretentious. There is humour, pathos, tragedy, and irony in equal measure. So if you're like me and usually don't like ponderous prison dramas, I reckon you should see this movie anyway, and you should find that it's surprizingly refreshing storytelling.

This is the movie every director will be jelous for his entire life what more can I say
One of the best old works I advise everyone to watch.

The title says it all. "Hope is a good thing probably best of all & good thing never dies ." it shows the actual truth what humanity always need most .
This Film is Pure Cinematic Enjoyment.

The Ultimate Celebration of the Human Spirit on a Grand Scale.

Plenty of Surprises and the Best Ending one can dream of.

"I Hope I can make it across the border - I Hope to see my friend and shake his hand - I Hope the Pacific is as blue as it has been in my dreams - I Hope.
The screenplay for Jay makes your brain tickle and it keeps your mind busy for a long time
One of the greatest films of not just the the 90's. But since film it's self everything about this movie is great. The story is rather basic but makes up for it with their amazing actors.
I watch it all over again & again & enjoy it as it is the first time. It is very humane & full of life & philosophy.
Tim Robbins gives the performance of a lifetime as Andy, a man wrongly accused of killing his wife and her lover. He is an unconventional prisoner who forms a friendship with Red, played brilliantly by one of the greatest actors of his generation, Morgan Freeman.

To give away any more of the story is a crime, because this is an incredible movie that needs to be seen by everyone. I give "The Shawshank Redemption" a 10 out of 10.
One of the greatest movies ever. An outstanding story presented at the right pace.

I just don't get it. It's not that I think this is an awful movie or anything, but no.2? Look at the rest of the movies in the top 10. Does it REALLY stand comparison with the Godfather or Seven Samurai? I think not. It's a manipulative, sentimental Sunday afternoon movie, raised above B-standard by some quality turns by talented actors. Nothing more. And who cares whether Andy could put the poster back in place or not. It's a patently ridiculous 'escape' to begin with. I understand that most of the people on this site will have a pop at me for being a snob, but the fact is I love Star Wars and Lord of the Rings and other 'blockbuster' movies. But if you're looking for a genuinely affecting drama, this doesn't cut the mustard. Sorry, guys, but you're all wrong.
Recently on cable television, this classic movie has stirred the hearst of many. It is a very compelling film, and it arouses one's emotions to their zenith. The casting is perfect, the performances are the penultimate of theatre, and the result is a must-see drama that belongs in the DVD library of all serious collectors.
Morgan Freeman is a tremendous actor. Everyone did a amazing job
Brilliant movie,I'm so glad I can see on a big screen at cinema. Marvellous and how interesting,also the cast just a fab . Highly recommended to watch
The film that fit for perfect cult classic. All time number one. After watching this my favourite movies are gone from my brain. I seen 3 times in one week but still that is attracting. A must must watch.
I never wrote a review before. I will try to write more often.

But this film is so good that you have to write something about it.

Script 10, Acting 10, Directing 10, the quality in general 10.

It's a long movie and still the rhythm is so good. It's crazy!


Most defiantly not 1 of the best movies/... While in many ways presents things I...n A different light it's not that amazing... If you'd ask me... (without giving spoilers) the movie in general... humanizes prisoners much much more then most prison movies (a especially for the time and...) and that's why I believe it snowballed so much attention and simply caught on but at the end of the day it's not that original it's not that good... It's fine even a good movie but not a 10 or a 9 not even a 8....it's Unbelievably over rated...

you should watch it.... but after you do think before you rate go over the plot again and.... there's also a need to separate the ending from the movie it's self.... again at a closer look it's not that! amazing... good but over rated....
It was genius, heartfelt, perfectly acted and overall a masterpiece
One of the best movie I have ever seen Without Freeman this movie wouldn't have been that special .
The Shawshank Redemption is an amazing film, thanks in part to its suburb acting, incredible writing and direction from Frank Darabont, who acquired the rights to this story long before it became a film. Despite its poor initial box office performance, the consequence of being released alongside titans like Pulp Fiction and Forrest Gump, it still went on to the Academy Awards with seven nominations. At times it may feel like there's no hope in Shawshank, but the film counteracts those moments with an ultimately uplifting story. There are laughs, tears and shudders throughout all 2+ hours, all of which I view as a testament to self worth and never forgetting your own truth. In these tough times we're in, you will find that The Shawshank Redemption can inspire and comfort you.
Some movies are just greatly made and meant to be great. Shawshank Redemption epitomizes this greatness. In every respect this is movie you can watch over and over again and still feel absorbed by its intrigues. Few movies come this close to perfection. Definitely a 10.
This is the real example of extreme courage and hope.

Every damn thing regarding this movie is outstanding.

The story is exceptional. Narration and script was tight and engaging.

This type of a gem can only be made once in a lifetime.

WOW movie!!
Aside from the iconic poster-on-the-wall scene, nothing about this movie is all that memorable.
You gotta watch this movie, don't waste your time looking for another one. Trust me
I am really glad that stupid people didnt ruined this movies score.

The Shawshank Redemption have a great story and 2 huge actors that made their roles flawlessly. The story made everything in this movie, EVERYTHING.

If you didnt watched until now... what are you waiting for?
This is one of those rare films that actually exceeds the book by which it was based upon. It's that good. Not only is this a damn good flick, it actually made me a fan of Tim Robbins and told me what I already knew about Morgan Freeman; He's one of the best actors alive.

I really can't say much more. This is one of my favorite movies ever and there is no way that I can make that point any clearer. If, for some reason, you haven't already seen this, go get it now!!! If you don't, you're seriously depraved. What a movie!!!!
You know some birds are not meant to be caged,their feathers are just too bright.
I love this movie. Its so cool. Its uniqueness, the storyline and action is on point. I really recommend others to buy and watch this badass movie.
I had a few questions at the end, but otherwise an amazing film that made me feel all the feelings. Loved the score and the acting was top notch. Couldn't say enough good things about it. Highly recommend.

I missed this when it came out, and probably wouldn't have gone even if I had heard about it. I expected this to be what "The Green Mile" was. That is, I thought it would be heavy-handed, pretentious, self-consciously high-minded, and boring. It is anything but these. It's an engrossing story and very entertaining story of two men and how they overcome their past lives. Freeman and Robbins give wonderful performances, and the supporting cast measures up. There are plenty of funny moments in the film, and the ending is intensely satisfying. It is a great movie.
I don't think this film is the number one of all time. But than, it might be. I placed Casblanca and The Godfather higher because they haven't dated. Let's see how well the Shawshank Redemption does in twenty years.

That said, this movie is a staggering experience. While I didn't experience it in theatres, I was impressed by the cinematography. The performances are uniformly flawless. I can't believe that Hawthorne beat out Robbins to a nomination. The direction and story also make this magnificent. But what makes it moving, is it's theme. In the end, it's about hope. Not an 'action' quality, but an important one. It doesn't preach, but teaches. The music score still haunts me.

I rank it as number one of 1994, and one of the best of the decade.
"The Shawshank Redemption" is an uplifting movie about hope. What I got out of the movie is that as long as you have hope you will always be O.K., I felt good after watching this movie, it puts that sense of hope inside you. I was actually cheering during the scene where Andy finally escaped from prison,it was a very unique moment. This is a film that anybody can watch and anybody that does watch it it will touch them in a special way, I guarantee it.
King is one of the best writers in the world. Books like IT and the Castle Rock series are some of the greatest stories ever told. But his best adaptations are always done by the best directors. The Shining was brilliantly interpreted by Kubrick and of course the aforementioned Misery and Stand By Me are both by Rob Reiner. Now Frank Darabont comes onto the scene and makes arguably the best King film ever. He seems to understand what King wants to say and he conveys that beautifully.

What makes this film one of the best ever made is the message it conveys. It is one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins, has been sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he never loses hope. He never gives up his quest to become a free man again. His years of tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane, but it gives his mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a different feel to it. There has never been anything like it before and I don't know if there will again.

It's not the easiest thing in the world to describe with words how perfect THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION really is.

Well, let's try. It won't take long, read other comments for closer details and views. This is a fantastic unforgettable movie where a banker (Robbins) gets his life changed, when he get a double life-sentence because of the murder of his wife and her lover. The first years gets to be a pure hell, he gets harassed, and he doesn't fit in. When he meet Freeman and his pals and starts a friendly relationship the movie starts up. Memorable and entertaining movie with big lifts by most of the fantastic cast. And this is coming from Stephen King?

10/10
Great lead performances by Robbins and Freeman. An outstanding supporting cast, fine cinematography by Roger Deakins, well-chosen shots by editor Richard Francis-Bruce, a haunting musical score by Thomas Newman, and a well-realized adaptation of the short story by Stephen King as adapted and directed by Frank Darabont.

What still amazes me about the overall positive response to "Shawshank" on the IMDb is how it touched viewers years after it was released into theaters. I saw the movie in the theaters after it received a few weeks after the Oscar nominations were announced. I was blown away by the movie then and it still gets to me now.

I would by lying if I had to rate this film less than 8/10 but then if I was asked "what's so great about it?" I would have to reply "well, nothing really - it's just a good film".

I very much doubt that anyone who looks critically at movies can really see this as anything more than a really good made-for-TV movie. It's like the Bjorn Borg of movies: you can't fault it but what else is there to it?

We need more "McEnroes" and "Agassis" with flair and style which go beyond what we expect from movies that are simply good.

Mungflesh Factor 8/10
The classics in classics are really amazing. Whether it's the plot, the meaning of the expression, the lens settings, the actors' acting skills, the music rhythm, etc. are so perfect. I was deeply impressed by the first time I saw junior high school. It's been a long time since then. "Hope is good, maybe the best in the world, and good things never die." I remembered the original lines in the film for a long time, and it was with me that inspired me to spend some time.

I couldn't stop thinking excitedly, free people would be so excited, free people on an unknown journey. I want to cross the border successfully, I want to shake hands with my old friend, and I want the Pacific Ocean to be as blue as a dream.


I saw this movie for the first time a year ago. In those days I was browsing the IMDb when I saw this movie ranked #2 in the top 250. That was very weird for me because I never heard about "The Shawshank Redemption" before. So I decided to go and rent it immediately. After watching the movie I was positively surprised. Definitely this is the best movie I've ever seen. The story, the direction and the cast (Specially Tim, Morgan and Gil Bellows) are perfect! The Shawshank Redemption really deserves that spot in the rankings. This movie is a "must see"! Thanks IMDb and all IMDb users for the top 250 and the wake-up call!
I have no idea, why this movie has received such a good rating. ItÂ´s an average prison movie without any highlights. Typical Hollywood stuff. There are hundreds of better movies around. The movie drags, the actors are average. ItÂ´s just this typical "heartbreaking" stuff and far away from other movies up on this list.

This movie is honestly one of the greatest movies ever made. This has been said so many times by so many people but it's true, this movie is genuinely good, nothing overrated, nothing boring, nothing bad about it. The movie is very emotional and has a great story and meaning to have hope. The movie is entertaining all the way through, wondering what will become of the character? Will he escape? Die in prison? Get free?. The movie is very good and has a really good ending. Masterpiece 10/10.
I Can't believe it.... The director just suprise me. Its a shame that such great move couldn't won even an oscar!!!!
I'm not going to spoil or tell you about the scenario of this movie but i'm really excited to review about the lessons i benefited from this masterpiece ,This Movie is a real gem , teach you lots of lessons about life and how bad it can hits you , The movie shows you various kinds of lessons and thoughts and how can you treat them positively , I'm gonna enumerate some of them , first is the real man is the person who can withstand a long term storm and keep going on , second it tells you never miss any opportunity even when it seems dangerous , all you have to do is embrace it , third is knowledge always rescue its seeker , fourth is hard times reveal your real friends who can sedate the pain that hard time give you especially when we're talking about the prison time , fifth is leave your own print in every place you attend just to give a sign or evidence for next visitor that you was there , sixth patience will achieve more than our force so always be patient not hasty and wait for the right time to come , and the last and the greatest quote from this amazing movie is "Get busy living, or get busy dying " .
An excellent adaption of Stephen King's novella "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption".

Morgan Freeman is outstanding and his narrative is very lulling and makes the film all the more compelling.

Tim Robbins, too, gives a fantastic performance - and the supporting cast (particularly Bob Gunton as the sadistic warden; he also appeared in the King adaption "Dolores Claiborne" (1995)) give fine performances, too.

Despite being riddled with prison cliches, this movie is great.

And remember: FEAR CAN KEEP YOU PRISONER, HOPE CAN SET YOU FREE.
Frank Darabont's "The Shawshank Redemption", starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, is the greatest film ever made in Hollywood. Plain and simple. The film tells the involving story of two prisoners at Shawshank Prison, and their decades together under the thumb of a cruel warden and his henchman. Andy (Tim Robbins, never better) is an innocent man, who uses his accounting skills to make himself useful to the warden, and struggles to keep up hope, against the counsel of his fellow inmates. Red (Morgan Freeman, astonishing) thinks hope is a dangerous thing, and is an institutionalized man, who can't imagine life outside of the prison walls. The film also stars Bob Gunton, Clancy Brown, William Sadler, and, in a powerful performance, James Whitmore. I'll say no more, because this film must be seen to be understood.

Shawshank Redemption is an excellent movie.It's directed good,acted good,written good and it definitely deserved a few Oscar's.There is no doubt about it.It also deserves to be on IMDb's 250 list,as it is.However,i must say that it's very,very overrated on IMDb.Even though it's a great movie,it's still far,far away from being the best one!

All of you who haven't seen this movie-should see it.But please don't believe in IMDb's rating's!If you do you might be disappointed because even though this is a great movie it's still not even close to being the best one! There is a lot of movies better then this one!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
A big part of this film's appeal is the interplay between Thomas Newman's soundtrack and the simple yet profound dialog. The CD score stands up as a great work on its own. It alternates between brooding piano and powerful orchestration, with a few oldies added for context.

Three scenes, named by corresponding tracks, are especially poignant. The first is "Brooks Was Here," followed by "Zihuatanejo" and "So Was Red" (that title carries over from the Brooks track). To me, the third is among the most moving sequences in film history. You can't top Morgan Freeman saying "Get busy livin'..." as the inspiring music plays in the background.
After 24 years, watching this Tales of the Prisoner adaption from Stephen King novel in 1994. A brilliant and masterpiece film from Hollywood. This movie also banned from release in cinema in Malaysia due to the prior excessive content. Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman just nailed it. This movie is still the first in top rated IMDb movies.
A good film that says about friendship & hope. I would give it a rating of 8.5/10 and its worthy to get an IMDB rating of 8.4 to 8.8 but not at all 9.3/10.

I will recommend y'all who are reading this review to see this movie atleast once in your lifetime. Screenplay is also good. Acting by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman was at the best.

So, my rating: 8/10

If you didn't select the film, then you have lived in vain

This film is one of those you would like to keep and watch over and over. Not a typical jailbird flick. Rather a story about struggle and overcoming and greatness. A happy end in this one feels true and believable although it wasn't necessary.

Another interesting thing is that none of the characters in it is made to be hated. No classical "bad guys". Everybody here serves a certain purpose to the story, thus directing the fate of protagonists.

I couldn't believe it was Steven King who wrote this. I generally don't like his stories, but that should obviously go for his sci-fi novels only. They all start well but finish ridiculously. However, it turns out that the man also penned "the Green Mile", another story that became a film that left a true impression. Gotta stop berating Steven King.
For a movie about a subject as broad and powerful as prison, this movie felt decidedly flat; there were "bad" guys and "good" guys and no-one in between. It follows a familiar trajectory and in my opinion, does not achieve anythign new on the cinematic or storytelling front. The sotry itself? Well, its simple feel-good melodrama. As hard as this might be to imagine, life in the prison is idealized. It's a stereotypical American story of righteous triumph that does little to stir emotions or provoke thought.
Closer to perfection than any movie has a right to be.
In 2021, this movies is still my best movies. So many things to be missed.. really one of the best memories of my childhood.
This is my perception of the entire film. As long as people exist in society, they will inevitably encounter the impact of this environment. Of course, there are good and bad, but these are not the content we want to entangle. What really should be done is that no matter what, you and I will not be the former self.
I have nothing but praise for THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION. It is touching, high-spirited and full of motivation. Tim Robbins plays a banker who is wrongly convicted of the murders of his wife and her lover. He is sentenced to life in prison and eventually befriends another lifer (played by Morgan Freeman in a powerful role) who has just been denied parole. It may sound like a simple story, but Frank Darabont's direction, along with endearing performances and a cheerful climax, makes the film so energetic and magical. THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is a breath-taking masterpiece.

5 out of 5

What words can describe such a great film as this . Limitless yet I only need one to compare this film to da Vinci's Monalisa, with such art that the generations to come will still be talking about this film , dissecting it to see what worked for many of us cinema bugs..Tim Robbins' greatest role is here in this film , unsurpassed and for Morgan Freeman , the thunder who never strikes twice at the same place , it is also here. What will you do if you were convicted of a crime you did not commit ask yourself ? I for one, most likely would not have survived as long as Jake and the bird, or any of the wayward pack , yeah boy, do we admire them for their tenacity against the abusive guards, and please remember that this film is set on an era where the inmates and the internal guvs are not as thuggish like it is now for the last 25 years and so, maybe if retold in the modern settings no one would have survived , escaped , got pardoned and let alone rebuild their lives. It is as touching as it can be , as marvelous as real gold in your hands and as clever as you would like it to be. Definitely in my to watch again and again list.

It's rare to see a film in which every individual actor would be able to be a leading character. This story truly couldn't have been told any better. Every scene held meaning, and every scene made the audience feel some type of way emotionally, it's really rare that a film can do that.

Overall, 10/10.
Such an amazing film Shawshank encompasses, it will show how men can be hopeful and and dreams can became true. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you. Even though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are going through.
And what a way to say it! Until this one, I have never before rated a movie 10. It is by all accounts the best movie I have ever seen. Frankly I felt a little bit bored by the story but suddenly it was as if the story had taken a turn and everything fell into place. The first two thirds of the movie started making perfect sense. Then it takes another turn, perfectly underlined by Morgan Freeman's marvellously confused expression being questioned by the warden. From this part on the movie is a bit more ordinary but still a beautiful drama.

The Marriage of Figaro has gotten new meaning.
This move was released in earlier 90s and still gives you a lot of inspirational prospects!
Andy Dufresne, a successful banker, is arrested for the murders of his wife and her lover, and is sentenced to life imprisonment at the Shawshank prison. He becomes the most unconventional prisoner.
I have enjoyed this movie so much, exilent acting...
Okay, couldn't Morgan Freeman have at least TIED with Tom Hanks for that Best Actor Oscar? This film works on so many levels. Freedom, innocence, aging, prejudice, masculinity. My only "but" is this: Having seen the television show 'OZ,' it seems that in prison the lines of good and bad, friend or foe, are very blurred. In this movie, they seem a little too cut-and-dry. Other than that, I can't think of a single other critique, nor can I come up with any other words to do it justice. If I had to pick from either this film or "The Godfather" only, it'd be this, hands down!
What can I say about this that hasn't already been said... Maybe the greatest movie ever?
What can you say that others haven't said about this film? (I notice there are 200 pages of comments). I'll try this: It is, quite simply, the best movie ever made. I have never seen a list of best films that didn't include it, and don't expect to until I'm very old.

You can't go far wrong with great actors in a great story; add in great direction and great cinematography, and you have a classic. For me to say that a movie is better than 'Casablanca' is quite something, but this is it. There aren't many films that have had their titles changed either, but down the years this one has simply become known as "Shawshank".

Just a final note to mention James Whitmore, often overlooked in all the praise that has been heaped on the other leads. How he didn't win a gong for his portrayal of the prison librarian I will never know. Yet another inexplicable miss by the Academy.
This is one of the few titles that grows better with age and will be in almost everyones DVD collection.
-Great story. -Great characters and casting. -Great dialogue. -Great music. -Never got boring. -Very clever and uplifting message about hope.

-I can't think of any bad things about it except maybe the length but it's chock full-o-fun.
Forgivness is releasing a prisoner, and realizing that prisoner is you. This movie might be the best movie that I have ever seen. You will laugh, you will cry, you will want to hug somebody. It is so hard to believe that this tale came from the horror novelist of our time. Do yourself a favor and buy this film. It's a keeper.
One of the best movies ever made. The ending truly is something most people love about this one, me included.
I've seen this movie only once, and I think that's the main reason why I like this movie very much. I have not been able to forget it. I has remained in my mind ever since I saw it. When I saw this movie, it made a tremendous impact on me. This is a beautiful movie about triumph and the power of friendship. Among other things, this movie contains terrific performances. Perhaps the best performance is that of the great Morgan Freeman, as a prison inmate. And of course, Tim Robbins also shines, playing the lead character. There are so many memorable scenes in this movie. One particular scene that stands out is the moment when Robbins' character breaks free, and you see him standing in the rain, shirtless and with his arms stretched out. But what is the most memorable scene is the ending--a fitting ending to this touching and haunting story. If you haven't seen this movie, definitely do so. This movie is so powerful that you only need to see once for it to move you. This movie is definitely one of the best movies ever.
I agree to the Conditions of Use. The data I'm submitting is true and not copyrighted by a third party.
I remember when I discovered this website now 20 years ago (Good Gravy where does time go?) I was surprised this was rated the #1 of all time. Still is to this day on this site. I thought it was a good movie but not my favorite ever. I don't even think it won any Oscars... though not that necessarily is saying much especially today.

What I took then and still do from watching the movie is hope. For anyone dealing with a bad job, marriage, friendship, or just a bad situation.
The Shawshank Redemption is arguably the finest work from Morgan Freeman, and up-holds as one of my favourite "prison" movies. A movie that walked out with zero Oscars in the 1994 Academy Awards and to earn it's place on top of the two-fifty, it's very impressive. They're some very memorable quotes, characters, stages and scenes in this movie that'll never be forgotten. It shows the value of friend-ship, a accurate display of what prison is like and very good acting. The thought of The Shawshank Redemption not winning an Oscar for its acting, writing or whatever is way beyond me. The Shawshank Redemption in my eyes is no solid masterpiece, but the hate and bash it gets feels totally unacceptable. A very solid movie with a suitable duration and some powerfully moving emotional scenes. One for everyone to see.


Fear makes you a prisoner, hope makes you a freeman.
I cannot understand why this movie is so highly rated. The Green Mile was better than this movie, by leaps and bounds. This movie was mildly pleasant at best. It has a typical happy ending. It has the kind of wrap up reminiscent of a romantic comedy. It doesn't seem very authentic, men in prison are miserable or unrelatable. The main characters truly come off as insane. No movie starring Morgan Freeman was every truly a great piece. He tries too hard to be profound, and it makes him look like a dumb smug ass. I don't have anything against him though. But he'll never be Denzel Washington. He's like bad luck. Maybe it's based on a book that was much better, haha!
The Shawshank Redemption is a really good movie, great written with a great story, a good cast and all in all a very good "harmony". But in my opinion it isn't the best movie ever made and there are some movies I rather put on Number 1 of the IMDb Top 250 List. Top 10 for sure, but not the best film I have ever seen in my life...
First of all, as I said above, the film depicts some timeless themes. As long as someone exists, as long as people still exist in the social structure in the form of independent individuals, then these themes will never be outdated and will always be worth pondering and discussing. Moreover, the film was completed in the 1990s, and the old shooting and performance techniques were completely eliminated at the time. So there is no ubiquitous deliberate and artificial in the old movie. It looks natural and convincing as a whole - although it must obviously be classified as a romantic genre.
"The Shawshank Redemption" is the greatest piece of filmmaking in the history of cinema; it is the best story ever manifested on film. The way the characters remarkably draw you in to all of their beautiful idiosyncrasies is something to behold. This 1994 masterpiece evokes the entire emotional spectrum out of you throughout its totality. Morgan Freeman got the nomination he deserved but Tim Robbins not receiving one is a shame. Everybody in the world has to watch this movie at least once in their lives. From the beautiful cinematography, screenplay, and story to just its overall cinematic perfection; "The Shawshank Redemption" is the gem of gems.
Very nice tittle best Very nice tittle best Very nice tittle best
After watching this film, I think good faith is important. When others don't believe him, he still doesn't give in. Still have a good yearning for life. Do what you want to be, such as the title of the film also redeem the people around him
The relentless pursuit of freedom is my perception of the whole film. People, as long as they exist in society, will inevitably encounter the impact of this environment. There are good and bad things, but that's not what we're going to struggle with. Really should go to pinch, is that no matter how, you and I will not be the previous self.
So for a great movie i provide you with a simple and short review. This is a film worth a watch with amazing story-line, drama and performance. Morgan Freeman made it up as a cast.

But i can not say that this is a best or even a better movie at all. It is a usually movie with a catchy, just and simple plot. This film is equipped with nice and beautiful plus emotional and interesting plot with amazing direction.

So this is a movie that appeals nearly everyone, and that is why it is so over-rated but that should not mean it is a all time best movie. It is a simple and honest movie which is great but yes over-rated.
I have seen this movie 1o times. Great Movie to Watch!


This is a wonderful movie, thanks to Tim Robbins. His role as Andy Dufresne is just amazing! I usually don't watch prison films but this one just pulls you in and doesnt let go until the end. Morgan Freeman is very good in this but I still think it was Robbins that clinched it as a top rated movie. I can't believe horror writer Stephen King came up with the story for this. What an amazing man! Now I see why they had to slip Rita Hayworth into the movie. I wonder how she'd respond to Morgan's little comment about her when they were watching "Gilda"? :-) If you havent seen this film, please do ASAP.. it's worth it!
I am neither a Stephen King nor a prison movie fan, so had not bothered to watch this film until recently... That was my loss.

Shawshank Redemption, like all great movies, falls into no category. It defines its own space. It is an incredible story woven across time and between two characters. It is about Spirit and Justice. And friendship.

Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins should have shared Best Actor Oscars for this film.

I hate to admit it, but Stephen King has talent.

This is one of the best Hollywood romantic Movie i have come across. You should watch it worth of sharing !
A DVD to own because you could watch it several times. Inspirational with relatable characters to root for, who wouldn't love this legendary drama with this talented cast!!



An intelligent, resourceful man survives in a brutal prison during the 1950's and 60's. Emphasis on character development rather than enviroment place this film ahead of others in this genre. A fine example of the triumph-of-human-spirit-over-adversity theme. (Rating: A)
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are going through.
The film is instructive, makes you appreciate everything you have, you have to think a lot in the process. Such films are very well remembered the first time and you want to watch them periodically. With each viewing it becomes more and more interesting. If anyone else has not watched this movie, then I highly recommend watching it. I myself will review it until retirement, that's absolutely for sure!

Especially, even briefly, I will not talk about what this film is about, everything is clear from the title. Just take the time and see. I wish everyone a great mood and as many good pictures as possible! Thank you for attention))

This is one of those movies every man should see before they die. I love this movie. The acting, the direction, etc. But the ending is one of the most vindicating and the most satisfying I've ever seen. Pure excellence.
Review (1~5)

#Content: Script 5 | Acting 5 | Cinematography 5 | Film Editing 5

#Visual: Costume Design 3 | Makeup & Hairstyling 4 | Scenic Design 4 | Lighting 4 | Visual Effects n/a

#Sound: Score & Soundtracks 5 | Sound Editing & Mixing 4

#Overall (1~10): 10

Shawshank Redemption is a simple but amazing film with an everlasting message. Although there's no action or special effects, this movie keeps you interested from the beginning to the end. You have friendships, difficulties, dreams and most importantly: you have hopes. All that Shawshank Redemption is about is ETERNAL HOPE! And I think this theme is what makes this movie so special. Not only you find something relatable (even though the circumstances that the characters are in probably have nothing to do with you), but you think about the message, about the movie. And after you watch it you feel motivated, even grateful for what you have. You feel hope. And that's exactly how you should feel because as the movie says "Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies."
This movie is just brilliant no other words needed
This is undoubtedly the best movie I have ever seen. The acting of the main protagonists - Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman - are brilliant. The movie is about hope and redemption. It is also about how uncertain life is - how circumstances can lead a person to disastrous consequences through no fault of his own.

Tim Robbin's portrayal of Andy Dufresne - a banker who is sent to jail for murdering his wife - was as natural as ever. Morgan Freeman as a seasoned convict Red who goes through a transformation during his time with Andy makes you feel for the man. Bob Gunton will make you hate the evil hypocritical warden with all your heart. Overall, everyone has done a beautiful job with their roles.

This film touched a special chord in my heart. I never tire of watching it. If you love the drama genre, this movie is for you.
Morgan Freeman is amazing in this movie like usual and Tim Robbins is amazing! It is set at a fast pace even though you would think not because it is about a guy who goes to jail! The Cinematography is just WOW! The scene where Tim Robbins is in the rain is amazing. "Get busy living, or get busy dying." The ending is just so wholesome and makes you feel so happy! The only thing that isn't just amazing in this movie are the characters, but they are still real good. INCREDIBLE MOVIE!



What is salvation? Only by reigniting the hope in people's hearts can they be redeemed. Only hope is possible. Even if the environment is even worse, Andy has not given up. He continues to write letters in exchange for a better library for everyone, helping those in need to get a high school diploma so that they can be viable in society, even if they know it will anger The guards also want people to hear beautiful songs and ignite the light of hope. There is a bird that can never be closed.
simply the best movie ever made. this movie embraces the philosophy that justice will be done, karma is heard and that goodness will rule above anything in this world. Andy and reds friendship is a strong unique bond, founded under the harshest of circumstances. In prison they each serve their time for situations they got themselves into, but certainly didn't form them as men - or messed with their true character. Andy has no choice but to try and accept his fate, that he will be in Shawshank forever - and on the surface he rises to the occasion by doing the paperwork for the sadistic warden, who treats Andy like the lowest of the low. In the meantime Reds parole is continuously declined, and they both have to re-adjust, even though their life in prison sometimes offers them glimpses of hope and of freedom. Will the time really come, and if yes...are they ready for it?

I have made a point of watching IMDb Top 250 Movies for quite some time. Wasn't aware of such a list, until I stumbled across IMDb & realised I had seen all of Top 50 (Almost) while some movies remaining. But, I see why Shawshank Redemption is #1.

Writing review about the movie would be an injustice. The movie shows Human Relationship at its core, when opened to its core upon extreme adversaries. Watch this movie, not because it's #1 in IMDb Rating but because the 240 minutes would be the moments to reflect your whole life on.
It has such a simple premise and story,but everything is done so perfectly that one cannot stop watching, an extremely masterful movie and practically a must watch of you have any interest in movies.
This film blows my mind every time i watch it.Top notch direction, supreme class acting. All and all this film is a gem and should not be avoided at any cost..
Loved this film. Has such a great message and the film is as good as the book. Watch and show your kids this film.
I watched this movie today, and while it was good it certainly IS NOT the #2 best Drama of all time. I hope that more people will sign up for IMDB after seeing this and start to post your user ratings as I would give it a good rating, but certianly not a 9.
The prision movie is one of those rare genres where more or less every film turns out to be a winner (The Great Escape, Pappilon, Midnight ExpressÂ…), but The Shawshank Redemption of 1994 may well take its place as the best of them all. Frank Darabont's hugely impressive picture cuts a remarkable balance in paying attention to the harsh realities brutalities of prison life whilst also successfully conveying the power and determination of the human spirit.

Tim Robbins is Andy DeFrans, a banker sent to the maximum security Shawshank prison for life for the alleged murder of his wife and lover, where he strikes up a friendship with the seasoned convict Red (Morgan Freeman). The film has enjoyed huge popularity and acclaim since its surprisingly passive 1994 release (perhaps due to the attention surronding Forrest Gump) and almost certainly deserves its label as a contemporary classic; few films carry such a magnetic, absorbing and attentive pull. The result is something that not only ranks as great entertainment but a chance for the viewer themselves to enjoy and appreciate a first-class piece of screenwriting and film-making.




(The Shawshank Redemption) I have watched it twice! What a movie. I want to suggest it to all who want to watch any awesome movie.
I saw this movie when it first came out 7-8 years ago and loved it. I was 15 at the time. Saw it again recently on TV and I didn't like it nearly as much. There's really not much to criticize, it's an excellent work, very well acted, nicely executed but it's just....idunno.....too plain and safe. Nothing really daring or new about it, and on second viewing many scenes seem needlessly melodramatic.

Still well worth seeing, but nowhere near the classic status that some reviewers here were quick to bestow upon it.
The Shawshank Redemption is a clichÃ©. It pales in comparison to much older (now often overlooked) movies of decades past. Do yourself a favour and do some digging - it won't take you long to find many, more thoughtful, more satisfying films of this type.
Smoothest movie i have seen so far. the screen play was fantastic. i used to think old movies are bad, but this one changed my mind.
I watched this movie last night to remind myself how magnificent this movie was and will always be. This movie is very powerful, emotional, witty, noteworthy and magical at the ending. It tells a story about freedom and justice and I loved the Morgan Freeman's narration and what's crazy about that is I heard that Morgan narrated the whole movie before a frame was ever put. That's just a fun fact and tells everything about this movie. This is one of those movies that everyone will talk about and remember for the next Century till Infinity. Easily one of the greatest films of all time having one of the greatest actors ever in Morgan Freeman. Him and Tim Robbins's performance will always be legendary.

Great movie but number 2 all time? Get real. Morgan Freeman is great, Tim Robbins is at his pinnacle and the screenplay keeps things interesting throughout. At times the direction is a bit klunky, and not all of the supporting characters are believable. It certainly deserves a place in the 100 top movies, but not in the top 50.
I was feeling a little discouraged the other day so I decided to put "Old Faithful" in the DVD player. Sure enough, after watching it--for who knows how many times--I felt inspired again. This movie is the best movie I've ever seen and maybe the best ever made. It's for anyone who needs to understand the power of hope--which means it's for everyone everywhere. I'm so proud it is the top movie on IMDb's Top 250, it sooo deserves it. I'm so glad it has touched others the way it touched me. If you haven't seen it--first of all, what planet are you on? lol--but seriously, go rent it. This is a movie that can change a life. If it doesn't do something to your insides, you probably don't have a pulse. I'm so grateful to Stephen King for writing it and to Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman and the director and others for making it such a classic film. THIS is what movie-making was supposed to be.
The Shawshank Redemption is perfect at conveying the brutality of such a prison and how it can change or destroy a human. It was very gripping and never felt boring even though largely there is no action throughout any of the film which just goes to show how good this movie was made. The music was nothing of disappointing however could have been better I think. Story was engaging with a good plot twist that I only saw coming about 10 seconds before the reveal. And it did a superb job of making me hate the villain of this story. Overall I would recommend this to anyone, not hard to follow and never boring.
Good movie Good movie Good movie Good movie Good movie Good movie

#TheShawshankRedemption One of the Best movie from 90's

What a movie a well written movie. This movie showcases the friendship b/w two prisoners hopes,dreams. Not for a sec it makes you bore. 1 of the best movie ever I watched of 90's.
I've seen this movie recently on my TV and it really is one of the most underrated movies of all times for its time. It's become such a classic movie that we love to see on TV.

Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins were elevated to the top with this movie. Their performances really is the thing that should be taught in film schools about how to build character interactions and character development.

Loved this movie, I recommend it to everyone who hasn't seen it.
Whenever you are feeling low, watch this movie and you will feel better.
Morgan Freeman at his absolute best, Tim Robbins - better than ever - it must be a good film!!

The Shawshank Redemption grabs you tight and pulls you into its depth and drama. It is definitely worth a look if you haven't seen it.

This film shows the story of how hope can set you free. It is a beautiful film with excellent actors, an good story and shocking (but excellent) dialouge.

The Shawshank Redemption definitely deserves it's place as my no. 5 favourite film and IMDb's no. 3 user rated film.

My rating : Obviously 10/10.
This movie is the bomb!! Great Movie!! I don't have enough thumbs to recommend the Shawshank!! Great actors in a great story. This is a great movie to sit back with your girlfriend and just chill out. It's just superb. A must have in anyone's video collection!!

I finally watched this masterpiece and oh boy oh boy it has all the reasons to be the top spot. This is absolutely wonderful movie.
yes this movie is one of the greatest

This movie changed my thinking about people who go to prison. I believe that everyone deserves a second chance no matter what it is. They need to be given a chance to change themselves. Morgan Freeman did justice to his role i was really touched at the end part when he's there for the parole and the words that came out of his mouth. Tim Robbins was tremendous, its the first time i noticed him as an actor and he's one of the best.

prison is terrible place to be its like a whole new world and my perspective has changed about that. I rate this movie 10/10 its the best, the story is great and the director does a great job. well done
Fantastic film that dramatically and powerfully displays the strength of the human will. With unforgettable performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, The Shawshank Redemption is a masterpiece. Subtle use of color (moreso lack thereof) helps to generate moods and feelings that resonate with the gripping plot and near-perfect dialog. A must see.

Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman headline this movie based on a story by Stephen King. Robbins is Andy, a banker falsely accused and convicted of the murder of his wife and her lover. When he arrives at the prison he is expected to crack under the pressure of prison life, but he surprises Freeman's character by surely moving through as time passes no matter what the prison throws at him. He begins making inroads with both the prisoners and the guards and warden.

He sets up a tax service that all the guards from the prison and surrounding prisons use. When a lead surfaces on the possibility of Andy being innocent the warden who has used Andy to set up illegal accounts to hide money, has it snuffed out so he can keep Andy inside. This set Andy on the final course of action in the movie. The Shawshank Redemption is a fantastic movie with great performances from all of its actors. A definite movie to add to any collection. See it as soon as you can.
"The Shawshank Redemption" is one of my favorite films. It was filmed in and around where I live (in Ohio), and I have actually visited the old prison where they shot much of the movie. I would love to know where they filmed the scene where Andy buried the letter and money in that countryside. It looks very familiar. Anyway, I thought Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were at their best, and had great chemistry together. The casting, so important to making a film work, was well done. Bob Gunton ,as the warden, does a great job. There is something intriging about escaping from a hopeless situation and changing your destiny. This is the first Steven King work I have actually enjoyed. Also, the background music really adds to the overall enjoyment and quality of the film. I am glad to see it is also considered one of the greatest films of all times by others.
When I first watched "The Shawshank Redeption", I thought it was a O-K movie. Something in the characters and the motion picture score would draw me back to see the movie again. Now, it is one of my all-time favorite movies. It is a classic. The story, adapted from a Steven King novel, stays true to the book. To me, there is something intriguing about a person changing his destiny, especially against all hope. The casting of the key players in the movie are right on target, and Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins work very well together. So, when you get a great script, talented actors cast properly, and a movie score that captures the mood and drama of the scene, it makes for a memorable movie.
amazing cast with characters acted and written in a way you deeply care for them
excellently paced
satisfying ending
just a solid feel good movie

This movie will make you think in so many ways. It's so good! Such a great story, great acting, great directing, the list goes on.

I HAVE NOT SEEN MANY FILMS ABOUT PRISON LIFE. I KNOW WHAT I HAVE SEEN FROM TELEVISION (REMEMBER THOSE TV SPECIALS "SCARED STRAIGHT"?), MAGAZINES, ETC. THEY ALL HAVE ONE SIMPLE THEME: PRISON IS "HELL" - AND THOSE WHO HAVE COMMITTED A CRIME, FOR WHATEVER REASON, DESERVE THEIR STAY IN "HELL". SOME PEOPLE GO TO PRISON FOR ALL THE WRONG REASONS IN THE WORLD AS WELL - SOME ARE UNJUSTLY SENTENCED FOR CRIMES THEY DIDN'T COMMIT. THIS IS THE STORY OF ANDY DUFRESNE - A MAN WHO WENT TO SHAWSHANK PRISON FOR ALL THOSE WRONG REASONS. ALSO, IT EXPLORES ANDY'S FRIENDSHIP WITH ELLIS BOYD "RED" REDDING - A MAN WHO WENT TO PRISON FOR A CRIME HE COMMITTED. IT'S A STORY OF HOPE IN THE MIDST OF "HELL". A MUST SEE FILM. EXCELLENTLY DIRECTED BY FRANK DARABONT.
Fear can hold you prisoner,Hope can set you free .
How many narrative monologues has he done since this "epic" film was made ?

50? 100?

I was thinking of setting up a data base to store them in.

How much storage space is there in The Cloud ?
The Shawshank Redemption has great performances, extremely well written script and story all leading to a deeply emotional climax. One of the best dramas of all time.

Mitchell Bulfin

Freedom is a wonderful thing, and I cannot find an adverb that can be used to deepen its beauty. Although we have lost freedom to a certain extent, we still yearn for freedom.Freedom requires ability. Yes, we need the ability to resist discipline and the system. A strong-willpower person like Andy can give freedom not only to himself but also to others...

It's common knowledge that this particular picture turned out to be a canon of a brilliantly made story! It shows how a person is able to overcome and pull through tons of arduous and backbreaking challenges in pursuit of his dreams. The main character was elaborating this escape route and finally got it! This movie is generally about rooting for justice and claiming rights. Stunning performances of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins made my heart melt!

One of the most legendary movies of all times!
This is one of the best movies I have come across. The acting of Tim Robbins is excellent but it is Morgan Freeman as Red who steals the show with a breathtaking performance. The story continually kept me interested and Tim Robbins' struggle against nearly every inmate in shawshank. Its possibly only his great friendship with Red that keeps him sane.

It was also strange to see one of the sisters in the movie who continually try to rape Tim Robbins, played marine hard man Drake in "Aliens", which is also one of my all time favourites.

Great movie. Rating 9/10.
I know this film so well that I use it as a connection. Whenever I see another movie or television show, I find some way to connect it to Shawshank. Kinda like the degrees of Kevin Bacon. There are so many great actors in this one movie and when I see them in another movie, I always think of Shawshank. Red's (Morgan Freeman) monologue from the moment the warden discovered Andy's tunnel to the end of the movie was some of the best storytelling I've ever heard. My one minor complaint was when Red mentioned 500 yards being nearly half a mile. 440 yards is a quarter of a mile so it was 60 yards more than that. (Numbers are one of my OCD issues) ðŸ˜„. Hands down the best movie of the twentieth century.


This is a great movie, the acting is spot on, the characters are well potrayed and the overall story is very entertaining from beginning to end. This is deffinantly a top movie of the decade.
A hymn to the determination and belief of man, 'Shawshank Redemption' truly deserves its place as the second best film made in the IMDB poll.

How on Earth we all missed this one when it was at the cinema is truly baffling; but it has now gained the worldwide recognition it so richly deserves.

Robbins is absolutely superb as Andy Dufresne and actually surpasses Freeman's performance (about the only actor to do this) as 'Red'. It's pointless describing the story, suffice to say that it stands head and shoulders above all other movies as a testament to the endurance and power of the human spirit, that almost no matter what situation we find ourselves in, we can endure and prevail.

Incredible, thought-provoking and a cornerstone of modern day storytelling.
This movie is simply outstanding and is one of the best if not the best I've ever seen. Its my joint 3rd favourite with Darabont's other great king adaptation The Green Mile and Seven. This movie is flawless on every level. The key to it though is possibly the greatest ever script ever written by Darabont, and truly outstanding acting from Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. No need to go into the plot. This movie is all about hope and will inspire you to do anything. The brilliant ending is definitely the best i've ever seen and brought a tear to my eye. Watch this movie whenever your happy or sad. It doesn't matter. The film will give you so much hope and happiness. It really is that brilliant. In fact i'm watching it now.

WATCH IT NOW 10/10- Probably the greatest movie ever made
Ya know, I never heard of the Shawshank Redemption before I came to the IMDB. I looked at the top 250 and saw it ahead of 1994's Forrest Gump and in the number 2 spot all time and thought, "man, what is this?" I found out a couple weekends ago and I'm not in the least bit disapointed. It was great, I loved it. I can say nothing that hasn't been said already. Great film, I wish I had seen it earlier. Awesome! Haven't seen it? SEE IT!
but the #2 movie of all-time ??!!?

It's all opinion, of course. However, I doubt even Stephen King or Tim Robbins would vote for this enjoyable saga as the #2 all-time movie. It is a marvelous adaptation of King's short story. Robbins, Freedman, and Gunton are all terrific, as is James Whitmore in his short role.

My biggest criticism is the slow detailing of Red's every move after being released from prison, and before going after the fortune. That part was a bit labored and overlong. Nonetheless, the movie was witty, exciting, and well-acted, but was purposefully limited in scope. Very good, yes! Excellent? Perhaps. Great? I must demur on great.
This film is based on Stephen King's story Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. It was part of a collection of four short novels, among them Apt Pupil (adapted by Bryan Singer) and The Body (made into Stand By Me by Rob Reiner). Shawshank was a great story and the film adaption by Frank Darabont is brilliant. The film is highlighted by the strong performances of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins.

This movie has everything you could want in a film: inspiring story of people persevering through bad times, strong directing and acting (two of the very best actors of today) and one of the classic endings I've seen in a movie.

Shawshank is well-made and inspiring. It has joined my personal movie hall-of-fame, which includes The Grapes of Wrath, High Noon, Goodfellas, L.A. Confidential and Bugsy. I also reccomend The Green Mile, Darabont's most recent King adaption.
The Shawshank Redemption has great performances, extremely well written script and story all leading to a deeply emotional climax! One of the best dramas of all time! Overall, The Shawshank Redemption not a movie, it's a emotion.
Great characters. Beautifully filmed. Moving...sad, yet beautiful and top shelf story telling. There has to be enough accolades to warrant viewing this here so I won't blather on about what a great flick this was except to say it was. Watch it and if you don't agree on it's placement...you must be...unbelievable.
Good movie but grade doesn't fit the reality that this movie is not the best of all time. It deserves 7 Top but I will give lower grade just to put it where it belongs hopefully.
Its my all time favorite movie. The twists and turns in the movie will amaze you to the core.
Yes, Utter perfection on celluloid.

Must see for anyone.
Two words: Flawless masterpiece. While not the greatest movie ever made, it should certainly rank extremely high. Unless you're completely repulsed by the idea of a prison film, or if you're too immature to appreciate good drama, you're going to absolutely love, love, love this film. This film was largely overlooked at the time because of the mega-popular "Forrest Gump" (an extremely excellent film in its own right), but it holds up because of a timeless quality that very few films possess (I know the film's only 7 years old, but I think that's long enough). If you're uncomfortable with some of the more graphic themes of the movie, it's still worth a look (certain cable networks regularly show an edited for TV version of the movie). This is a must see for anyone who calls themselves a film-buff.
God, what a beautiful film! The performances are very good both from the main characters and the supporting characters, the photography is very good but what caught me the most is the whole of it all and the story. A story that we will hardly forget and with good messages such as the conviction in what we believe and the great power of friendship.
One of, if not, the best movies I have ever come across. A very heart warming and inspirational film that never ceases to put a smile on my face no matter how many times I see it. Fill with memorable scenes and dialog. Acting from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman alone make this movie a great gem. The story is focused in a prison, but the focus of the film is hope, patience, redemption ( as in the title), and friendship. The movie contains a lot of symbolism, but it identifies itself quite clearly. I urge you if you call yourself a film fanatic to go watch this movie if you have never seen it. It has some the best characters to it.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best movies I have ever seen. This is a true Stephen King film. Darabont's effort in the screenplay was astonishing. I love this film. The whole story has twists and turns and surprises in every corner. The best prison movie, most definitely. Robbins delivered a powerful performance. He should have won an Oscar for this film. I loved it and I hoped, I'm sure, that everyone else loved it. I give this film a solid, gold TEN. Highly recommended for those who have taste in movies. If you have any comments for me, please e-mail me at tylerripen@yahoo.com.



When Batman takes his shirt off toward the beginning to the film, he has a large scar on his shoulder. The scar is gone later in the movie, when he appears shirtless while laying out the clues he's gathered on the Riddler case.
One of the greatest movies of all time. The acting, the scenes , the music - everything combined makes it one of the greatest movies of al time.
When I had finished watching the movie,I was excited and wanted to watch it again.Wheather the figures and details or the spirit that the music conveyed to."Hope is dangerous" Red had ever said,But Andy has always sticked to it.He didn't cry when he was thrown into prison though he was innocent.On contrary,he found ways to kill long time to escape.He helped the head of the prison do the illegal things in order to gain some freedom.He rebuilt a library and helped the other prisoners.All the prisoners liked him,for he helped them find hope again.Perhaps it was time to escape,in a lightening and thundering night,he escaped from the prison through the hole he had dug for twenty years .He was free eventually . I like Andy ,for his talent and his wisedom .And the most important thing that I like is his spirit-never giving up.
I watched ShawRed as the first movie on my PC when i bought it. Some how the engineer who formatted my drive put this movie along with few other movies for me to see as he had limited collection of movies. I watched this movie and I simply loved it, especially the end. Along with time this movie has grown over me and the more i think about it, the more i like it. It truly deserves all the recognition it is getting, though i do not consider it better than Godfather but still i find it a masterpiece movie. Great acting by both leads, Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. In fact, everyone acted well in this movie. The direction deserves standing ovation and Frank Darabont, the director also deserves hats off for his very gripping screenplay. It is very difficult to maintain much interest of audience in same interior scenes if they keep repeating themselves but DOP has done a fine job too. All n all a master movie and for new generation it is a must watch to know what movies were made just twenty years back.
As a super movie fan, I don't why I only watch this all the time high rated movie after 25 years. Anyway, the movie is heavy and the play is also a legend. With 20+ years going, more and more movie fans praised it as a fine god work which is well-deserved!

It becomes undoubtedly the classic in the classics. "Dark Moon High Flying, as one of Chinese translations title, and I would say it can well explain everything. 20 years of hard work is just for freedom, a must-see inspiring movie for everyone.
This is one of my fave movies because its so beautiful. The acting , the story and the filmmaking. This is how all movies should be made...with heart. The story is so simple but its shaped and made a master piece.

If you have not seen this movie, and you are 15 or 55 years old,I'm telling you that you are missing a lot.

I give it ********** out of ********** because it moved me so much, the way its showing the human nature, the good and the ugly side of it.

Well it was not until recently I saw this one....a few of my friends had seen it and were completely raving about it....finally saw it a few days back...it takes some time to fully absorb it....what an outstanding cinematic achievement....!!! It is a complete pity that the movie released in the year of 1994, because it was robbed of a well deserved Oscar, given pulp fiction and and Forrest gump also released the same year.....this movie has everything. ...memorable performances, characters, a good story....it also has a lot of repeat value...this is a kind of movie which you can go back to whenever you are down in life...there are a few cinematic liberties taken....but thats pardonable.
This film's acting and attempted realism is most likely the sole reason this film is ranked so highly on the list. The two main roles are good at conveying the proper human emotions during the right scenes. It may be just a personal disliking of the plot itself, but the whole film feels rather drug out, as if the director was trying to look for things to add in. This movie could have been a lot better if parts were cut from the finished product overall it just feels desperatley stretched.
When I look at the IMDB Top 250 list, I am generally dismayed by both the films that are missing and those that should not be there. However, I am delighted to see The Shawshank Redemption right up at number 2. This movie is absolutely superb, far surpassing the story on which it was based. The plot is brilliant, and once again it shows Morgan Freeman to be one of the greatest actors of all time; it amazes me that he has been given so few awards.

When Tim Robbins was interviewed, he called this a "love story", and that is exactly what it is - a story of a wonderful (and completely non-sexual) love between two men, a love that is born in an incredible hell-hole and helps to raise them out of it. It's the sort of movie you can watch over and over again and never get tired of it.
A long road to freedom, a deep washing of the soul.This is an immortal inspirational classic

Still holds up. Reminds me of my time in prison, except I readily admit I snÃ¼ffed the wife. Told my new woman I'd do it to her too if she wasn't careful. Good movie tho.
Well, what can one say, seen it now umpty times over the years and it remains one of the best m9vies ever. Not only is the story gripping but the acting, out of this world mostly. Not only gripping, drama, humour, it has it all. It is so well played you feel like that you are locked up with them. Get the popcorn out, have a nice cold beer ready, you are going to love this and sit through it in one session!
The plot, dialogs, acting, characters, flow,... everything is perfect and well balanced to create a unique movie. Already a classic.

I just wonder now, why I still didnt try to watch it, considering I was in love with Stephen's stories in my childhood. The episode looks really realistic and profound, like I love. The characters are deep, not two-dimensioned, like it is always now. In one moment of the movie(Andy led some talks about setting free from the prison with Morgan) I was wondering If Freeman was expressing his real emotions, because it really looked like that. So. I recommend it to everyone without any doubt! enjoy the watching and amazing play!
This is one of the Best movie i have seen in my life till date! It actually shows you how to live a goddamn life. There are many messages lying in this film and the best 2 are known to you all. It actually showed me that life is not what we think it is! Its about going down Hundred times and getting back Thousand times! Life is always should be considered as Fighting with the Storm(sometimes it may be Tornado!). But once the storm is over, you won't remember how you made it through, or how you managed to survive. You won't even be sure, whether the storm is really over or not. But one thing is certain. When you come out of the storm, you won't be the same person who walked in! That's what this storm's all about! It makes you totally a different person! So always Keep your Hope constant and Get Busy Living the Goddamn Life on your own! :)
10/10 - Must Watch. The performances in this film are simply amazing. The story is tragic and memorable. The directing is one of the best I've ever seen. It's perfect.
Fantastic movie. One of the best 90s movies I've seen. Everything about this movie from plot to character development is solid. The ending wraps the story up in a meaningful and memorable way. There is a reason why this movie continues to be referenced time and time again.
One of the so-called greatest films of all time - at last one I can agree with.

The movie is a classic blockbuster: great acting, great plot, great dialogue and great directing.

The writing is fantastic, the screenplay translates so well from the original text without losing much.

One for the history books and for your permanent collection.

Loved the movie, watched it several times now and always see something new. Great human conflicts. Clever plot. Acting was superior. Catch myself thinking what it must be like to be in a prison every time I watch it. Could not do it. The movie draws you in and you can't help feeling like you a part of it. The interaction of the characters had so many levels of emotions tied to them. Can't imagine what people must feel when they are innocent and end up in prison Horrifying thought on so many levels. The ending was great, but I wanted to see more. wanted to know what their future was like. wanted to see it. I love the fact that the movie actually brought you to the reunion of the two main characters and how it played out.

I loved the movie and it's concept. The storyline was outstanding.

Morgan Freedman did an outstanding job as best supporting actor. And Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne, did a remarkable job.

And the rest of the cast did great also. The movie was just awesome.
A simple brilliant movie in all aspects. I am not sure how many times I have watched it and each time it still has the same effect. When you feel low, watch this "hope is indeed a good thing".
It feels like I am watching a real thing happening in front of you. It doesn't seem to be acting at all. It is not surprising that this is a movie until the list of crew members at the end of the film comes out. The genius of the mind, the familiar business ability, the perseverance of perseverance, and the determination to bear the burden of humiliation eventually led to a perfect escape that lasted for 20 years. The hero finally regained his freedom, and the bad guys also suffered from their own consequences. It is better to say that the protagonist thought of the final ending from the beginning.
Wow Its the best criminal prison drama movie I have ever seen

Somehow, I missed this film the first go around. Very impressed.....I only hope that prisons have improved in the last 70 years....but I fear they have not. This is a cautionary tale for any person hell bent on going to prison. Rise up and do some good where you are standing. It is a long, bleak, lonely time in prison.
This is one of the best movie ever made, it's a story about hope.

I procrastinated for a few years thinking that this movie might just be a overrated one but boy was I wrong. This is an engaging good hearted film based on a novel by Stephen King.

The story commences with a theme of murder mystery but slowly unfolds into a picture of friendship, faith & hope. We see a plethora of characters that gives /us different life of prisoners, officers their emotions & journey within journey. The climax is one of the best I've ever seen it's an eye opener and we'll surely think of that for a very long time.

Highly recommend it, maybe the best movie I've ever seen. 10/10
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are in a dynamic role in this film. I could not imagine a lot of innocent people inside a gigantic prison of history. When I saw Clancy Brown first time, looked so tough, he's big too. I also like Clancy's role, too. He should be a great fighter. What is good for Andy Dufrense (Robbins) is that he makes an unbelievable escape route to run away from prison, finally.
...followed,very closely,behind by Stand By Me.

The novella Rita Hayworth... is one of his best as well,so when I heard that it was being made into a film,i was worried at how it came out.

All that worrying was for nothing.

Superb performances(Sorry, but where was the Oscars for Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, Frank Darabont etc),a script that sticks to the novella but doesn't get bogged down in over plotting(like Pet Semetary) and some brilliant direction make this one of the truly great films of the 1990's.

Pity about The Green Mile (1999)...
Never has in mind that a live inside a prison is better than outside world, and never has in mind that hope is something that we can have even in the darkest moment. I can relate to every assuming guilty people through this movie, because losing brook has made my heart ache. This movie has given me motivation like a bird flying through the cage. I am very grateful to myself that i have chosen this movie over avengers, or else "i have never seen a shoe of a man". Sincerely, you dear friend

I would recommend this film. It has a good plot and in the end all the small things you never noticed all add up. So overall it's a good film. It has a good meaning to it which a lot of films nowadays lack. However during the first hour of the film I found it quite boring. It was as if the film was leading to something and although things happened it just didn't interest as me as much. In saying that the film really does have a good meaning which is why I like it so much.

Although I would recommend this film there are other films which have a similar meaning which I personally think are better.

I gave it 7 out of 10 simply because this film is above the average film but it's not exceptional.
I enjoyed this film because it shows the way I believe our Judicial system should be;tough, and stern. The two main characters,Red and Andy, form a friendship bond that carries them through the ordeal of prison life. They stick together and help one another.The great scene I enjoy, is when Red comes up for parole and the last time, they set him free. The officials may have thought He served his time enough, and He was older anyway.Red gave a great speech, how he regretted what he did and was very sorry.When he said he would "talk some sense" into that guy who committed that crime,I think that moved the officials to change their minds.

Morgan Freeman is wonderful in this film and I love Robbins' performance,here.
The cast as this movie is legendary if they had picked anyone else for any of the parks it would not be one of the best movies madeðŸ–¤ðŸŽŸðŸŽ¬ðŸŽ¥ðŸŒŸðŸŒŸðŸŒŸðŸŒŸðŸ’œðŸ’œðŸ’œðŸ’œðŸ’œðŸ’œ
Excellent, powerful drama about two mens' friendship and escape from Shawshank prison. Robbins and Freeman excel in perfect roles. Sharp script and touching subplots add to this enduring film. Freeman's narration illuminates beauty and power of Stephen King short story upon which it is based. Directed by Frank Darabont ("The Green Mile").
Fear makes you a prisoner, hope frees you, hope is a good thing, perhaps the best thing, and good things will never die. When someone committed suicide, I almost couldn't help crying. People live in fear is really very bad, out of harmony with the environment, fear everything around them, it feels like an invisible hand, pinching his neck at any time, if can't find an exit, mental breakdown, the rest is only despair I feel very gratified, even some lucky, Rhett was not defeated by this fear. I also want to thank Andy, who left a straw for Rhett in his life and death. The Lord loves the world. In front of the supreme Lord, everyone has original sin, and we repent to ourselves. Never give up hope, save yourself, save your soul.
Expectation, freedom and friendship are the common beliefs and pursuits of mankind. As long as there is full of hope and firm belief, there will always be a sea waiting for us.
It's so shocking that the male master escapes through the sewer. It has to be said that his obsession with freedom overcomes everything. Even if he stays in prison, because he keeps learning and doesn't break away from the outside world, he can face everything so calmly. Even in the small world of prison, he is the master himself.
I consider a technically well made movie, good story with great actors, but nothing more. Use the melodic drama injustice, but not quite spectacular, as a masterpiece of cinema. I think a great movie for afternoon session, but not the level of movies that have the best score of all time. This I consider an injustice. This film has to have something else to be an excellent movie. I respect the majority opinion here, but I put my sincere considerations, here is a democratic space to put our feelings and emotions. Film is a passion, and I'm sure we'll be together to honest debate with many other films. I liked this movie, but without much enthusiasm, as in the comments here. For me, a movie only average ...

Hope is a good thing, and this movie can teach you about hope and no fear about to be prisoner of you own freedom. Hope is a good thing, and this movie can teach you about hope and no fear about to be prisoner of you own freedom. Hope is a good thing, and this movie can teach you about hope and no fear about to be prisoner of you own freedom. Hope is a good thing, and this movie can teach you about hope and no fear about to be prisoner of you own freedom. Hope is a good thing, and this movie can teach you about hope and no fear about to be prisoner of you own freedom. Hope is a good thing, and this movie can teach you about hope and no fear about to be prisoner of you own freedom. Hope is a good thing, and this movie can teach you about hope and no fear about to be prisoner of you own freedom. Hope is a good thing, and this movie can teach you about hope and no fear about to be prisoner of you own freedom.
This movie, based on a short stoy by Stehpen King, is easily one on the best movies made in the modern era of Hollywood. It incorporates a touching story of friends and hope, top-notch acting, excellent directing and most important; a screenplay worthy of high marks. With beautiful photography and a story that is best described as "uplifting". this is one of my favorite movies EVER. The best line in the movie goes "it all comes down to one thing; get busy living or get busy dyin'". A rating of 10 out of 10 was given.
This movie was a little overrated, but it was still wonderful. What can I say that hasn't already been said. It was a lot like the Green Mile, only it has some more interesting plot twists and such. It had a great ending. It deserved to be nominated for Best Picture, and I enjoyed it more than Forrest Gump (which, I think won that year), but I think Pulp Fiction should have won that year.
A movie is considered amazing when it not only entertains you but also teaches you something important about life. This movie taught me that Hope is the best thing you can possess in life. This is one of the most fantastically written and performed movies, I have come across. It is a true piece of Cinema.
This movie is a must watch.timeless. No regret. Best of the best.one of thoses movies taht you will remember forever
Twenty years for freedom and hope. "Shawshank redemption" spiritual level of hard core, deep meaning and influence. A man's thirst for freedom is powerful. He can make a man chisel away at a wall. The good and evil in people's hearts are not increased or decreased by the loss of time or the change of environment.
I expected The Shawshank Redemption to obviously exceed to some level of greatness as it's the highest rated movie of all time. The movie had me and i believe most people hooked from the beginning as it starts with a cliffhanger and a very stressed and confused man drunk in his car. The movie really shows the audience how police brutality and prisons were in the 40's, and how they used to treat people. I wish i could say something bad about the movie as i feel every movie or show you watch should have at least one thing to point on, but i feel the director of The Shawshank Redemption (Frank Darabont) added everything that the film needed and for most people who have watched the movie succeeded expectations. If you are thinking about watching this movie I would 100% recommend as it's a movie i feel everyone should see at least once in their life.

The Shawshank Redemption is not only the greatest film of the last decade, but in time, this may become, in the eyes of moviegoers, the best movie ever made. The story of wrongfully accussed banker Andy Dufresne, and his friendship formed with con Ellis Boyd Redding in Shawshank Prison, has become as universally acclaimed and loved as any other in recent history. This is the 'Casablanca' of it's time. A near-perfect movie that can be watched hundreds of times and never lose it's impact. Perhaps its the way the movie handles the timeless theme of hope, and the trials one man has to endure to be attain the proverbial redemption of the title. Maybe it is because this movie is truth, simple truth, about the triumph of good over evil, the triumph of reason over madness, the triumph of hope over everything.
Hope is a good thing as said by Andy and I hoped that I will like this movie again rewatching it after years. It still does , like s charm. No action , No VFX, No ott moments still in the 2020's this works like old wine. That moment when Andy breathes a sign of relief in the rain after escaping still gives you reason to live your life for. The climax too. After all these years it is surprising that the film didn't win a single Oscar award ,even though it stand against had equally great films ( eg- Forrest Gump ), but it doesn't matter now though ( but it also gives an idea on what a splendid year 1994 was for movies). What this has done in the future is history and it has emerged as one of the greatest movies ever made and ya it is still the highest rated movie on IMDb and I would still want to watch it again after few years to stay motivated in my life...
I've been thinking why is this movie The best movie for so many people, then I remembered it is like music, the best music is the ones you heard at 14. because you associate with memory and when your brain starts developing and your awareness of yourself and others come into being.

this movie revitalized my love for classical and baroque music no doubt and introduced some themes. I find the main character somewhat unrealistic only because I personally cannot relate to him. If I was in his position I doubt I would have done what he did.

It is good but I prefer Morgan Freeman's The Bucket List much more and a variety of prison movies(American History X) and TV series(Prison Break).
I must say that this is the best prison films of all time. I couldn't believe that this film didn't win any Academy Awards. This film could have win at least one or two. Also, I thought that Tim Robbins could have earned an Oscar nomination. He gave a superb performance. But the one who was powerful in this film is Morgan Freeman. He gave one of the best performances that I have ever seen in film. It was heartwrenching. I like that tagline: Fear can make you prisoner, Hope can set you free. Frank Darabont did superb filmmaking in this film. By the way, I found out that Allen Greene, the person that Frank dedicated at the end, was the director's agent and his close personal friend. If you want to see a film that takes place in a prison or dramatic films, then see this film. You will never regret it. It is the best prison film since Midnight Express. SEE IT!

I'd say this is the movie that got me into movies. It got me into more of my favorite movies such as Taxi Driver, Inception, Pulp Fiction, and so many other great movies. Morgan Freeman has to be my favorite actor in it, not to undermine Tim Robbins whose performance was compelling and beautiful. It does a great job of humanizing criminals and it has one of my favorite antagonists in any movie ever, except maybe the Joker in the Dark Knight or Candie from Django Unchained.
I don't like this movie erase it this sucks y does this exist ahhhhh
Never met anyone who doesn't like this film and that's just testament to how good it really is



This movie is not your ordinary Hollywood flick. It has a great and deep message. This movie has a foundation and just kept on being built on from their and that foundation is hope.
Freeman's character is more compelling, giving him a natural grace and dignity. It's a really good movie
As a person who loves watching movies of different categories and genres, I could say that this movie could truly represent our planet earth in a right way to aliens (If they exist). With this, I would like to underline that this is a film that shows our humanity and the fact that a person could have patience of the highest level. I would recommend to everyone to watch this amazing masterpiece, even if you are not a cinema lover or as interested in cinematography as I am.
Oh man where to begin. This movie has it all. Easy to follow for both critics and normal viewers alike. This film has it all. The performances are amazing, especially Morgan Freeman. For God Sake he even narrates it. This film deserves the top spot on IMDb for sure. The story is great, and it really gives a great look at what prison can be like and how it can affect a man. It also has one of the most satisfying endings in film history. Stephen King may be a creepy guy but boy does his books make incredible movies. I recommend this movie to literally everyone (except small children) who are looking for an emotional, heart-warming, tear-jerking, amazingly created movie.
i dont know what to see about this movie that hasn't already been said. as good as movie as forrest gump was, the only major award it should have won over shawshank was tom hanks as best actor. an argument can be made for zemeckis for director, but seeing as shawshank redemption is such a better movie, and most of the movie takes place in location, (shawshank prison) i think darabont is robbed not only for not winning the oscar, but not even scoring a nomination. and seeing as he would be the best director, i would think that if you're directed your film best it would logically be the best picture. tim robbins is also robbed of a nomination, and i think hanks just edges him for that trophy. the biggest travesty of all is that shawshank doesn't even win any of the oscars it was nominated for. if you havent seen this film recently, go pop it in the dvd or vcr and just sit back and revel in its magnificence.

An absolute masterpiece from start to finish. A perfect ten.
I cannot deny two things: 1. Stephen King is the master of horror / suspense

2. If the crowd decides to like something, no matter what it is, there no way no one can stop it.

If you are irritated by the amount of votes of "Shawshank redemption," perhaps you will find Akira KurosawaÂ´s "Runaway train" not so clichÃ© prison film.
A Popular Film That Deserves Its Popularity Fantastic Film This Review Is Unneeded An extraordinary and unforgettable film about a bank veep who is convicted of murders and sentenced to The toughest prison A bit overrated, but still an amazing film.

I watched this movie about four years ago based on the high rating it was getting on this and other sites. The movie wasn't bad, and I liked the twist at the end. Overall though, the movie was rather average for me - your typical prison movie -- you know, we're in prison together, society done us wrong, us good, guards bad etc. The protagonist eventually escapes leaving behind some who helped. Warden bad. That's about it. Have I missed something?
The day Hollywood tries to remake this, will be the day I never watch another film. It was wrenched and probably an understatement they tried it with "Jacobs Ladder." This movie is a gripping, well told story, that can't be touched. It is one of my all time favorite movies! If you have never watched it go do so now! Very few movies even come close to it's caliber. It is hard to find a single thing wrong with this All-time classic! I should have wrote this review years ago. I saw it at a very young age and was mesmerized. This is one film that truly deserves all the high ratings! I love the narration and everything that went into it. 10/10 stars.
It really is difficult to find anything at all negative to write about this absolute cinema classic. If there is just one point that comes to mind perhaps it would be the apparent lack of visitors to see the inmates, though it might well be argued they would probably add little to this near perfect story. There, at least I have thought of something!! This movie dominates the mind in a way few others have ever achieved. The storyline unwinds in brilliant fashion, the playing by all the cast is beyond reproach, with Oscar-worthy performances throughout. I can think of no other film that tells the penal servitude story the way this does, and frankly can only finish by pleading to everyone that they really must see this monumental movie at least once in their lives. Magnificent.
This is a sad film. Its extremely good but its also black in the way that a brick wall in front of a motorway is dangerous. Until the last two minutes its an unrelenting depression. Bang! its sad (the sound of its dark feelings hitting my head.) I can't say anything about this movie. Its beyond good. It is FAULTLESS. Watch it! Then you try an review it.
You won't regret seeing this movie. Even if you love movies such as Fast and Furious, you will like this one. It's impossible not to like it.
Amazing film. It is a poiganant story about hope and friend . How friend looks like and what hope will let you to do. Belive me you will see this film more than one and each time you will say amazing,grest film.
One of those movies that always seems to be on some channel and I always end up watching it. A movie almost entirely comprised of men enduring prison and corruption and surviving rape and attempted murder offers something surprising, hope.
I never heard of this movie when I watch first time, I accidentally saw this movie running on TV and I started watching, it was night time , definitely the best experience that I can't forget. I have so much into the movie , it is so good. I always feel it is part of my life experiences. The movie deserve Oscar for all the category but sadly it didn't get even it is the best movie of the century, but it wins ppl heart anyway that is more than Oscar.
I am surprised at how many people have not seen this movie. It's spectacular. I have two favorite movies. This is one of them. I have friends who have no interest in seeing Shawshank, but after I make them watch it, they all love it. No exceptions. I can't believe Forrest Gump won best picture in '94. The Oscars lick.
This film is truly magnificent and if there is anyone out there who hasn't seen it they should get straight down to their local video shop and buy it because it is the sort of film that you will want to watch over and over again. There is no acting in any other film that comes close to Tim Robbins and especially Morgan Freeman. I fail to see how anyone could fault any part of this film it is, in my opinion, perfect. The plot line is great and there is no way you could guess what is coming next and the ending is completely unpredictable.

The movie was absolute trash. Horrible scripts, least menacing villain ever, no chemistry between the actors, and mundane story line. The movie was immensely over hyped and definitely does not deserve anything near a 9.3 rating. Its alright as a kids movie. It does not come anywhere near the unprecedented standards set by the dark knight or for that matter does not even come close to spiderman 2. The movie is often commended for its humor. In my opinion the humor is extremely dry and futile. Nothing special at all, despite its box office success it would have been better off as an animated movie. So if you want watch at least a decent super hero flick you might as well pick up Watchmen, X-men first class, Spider man 1 or 2 and of course the batman trilogy.
This is one of those rare films that is flawless! no matter how hard i try i cant seem to find anything wrong with it. it has a great script, great acting, and a feel good tone to it. Morgan freeman and Tim Robbins are great this film is a must see! This is truly one of the greatest films ever made! i highly recommend it to everyone! It also has pretty good cinematography and it feels real. You get lost in the story and it feels like you are apart of the story! This definitely deserved all of the awards that it received. Even though it has a long running time it still manages to run smoothly without any dull moments. Bravo!
The Shawshank Redemption is a classically quiet film about the injustice served to one man and his consequent adaptive actions. Frank Darabont has shown true talent in the creation of this near-perfect modest film with most scenes showcasing deliberate quaint beauty. Emphasising the beauty of life through many mediums, some ethical, some not, this film really helps the viewer appreciate life and the little things. With a cast performing their roles perfectly, this uplifting and high-spirited film is a stand alone about every simple aspect of life and how it is approached. The Shawshank Redemption is a deserved classic.


The Shawshank Redemption is a redemption story in which the main character committed no crime of which to be redeemed. Although the hopeful message resonates with audiences, The Shawshank Redemption is not the greatest movie ever made: Every character is a stereotype, the cinematography is bland, and the pace is slow.

Fear makes you a prisoner, hoping to set you free. -"Shawshank redemption"
Shawshank redemption is a epic movie in the history of cinema. It can be watched infinite times. The friendship,hopes of redemption is put together nicely. The background are stunning. The places in the film are exceptionally marvelous which takes you to another world.No other film in the world has this much message. It should have won more than 7 oscars. hypocrisy of Oscar Ultimately the best movie.
The Shawshank Redemption is considered one of the greatest films of the 90. The story talks about hope, the story of director (Frank Darabont) and the act of (Tim Robbins and Morgan freeman). The story is about( Two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency. )


The Shawshank Redemption is hands down the best movie of all time. I will type that again, Shawshank Redemption is the best movie.....EVER. Everything about this movie is amazing. This is Tim Robbins best work, Morgan Freeman is perfect as Red in every frame of the film and everybody else is great in their roles. Every time I see this film I love it just a little bit more and it still stands as one of the best examples of hope ever to be put on film. It also has one of the lines in film history, which I have quoted often in my life, "Get busy living, or get busy dying." So overall, a total Masterpiece. 5 Beards Out Of 5 Check out my video review @ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W5PyYKla1G8

There are a lot of movies that tell us something important. But this movie is different from those. If we put all movies on one line,this one can't be put on it. We all should see this movie at least once in our lives.
I never thought one's perspective of life would affect me immensely The movie starts little boring but after some time it takes up Acting- Everybody was good 5/5 Story- our protagonist is a Bank employee who is accused of killing his wife and her lover His life in Prison is the main plot film This is not normal film ,it will make you cry ,laugh and of course Sad Cinematography-For films it was not revolutionary in filmmaking it didn't try anything new in cinematography Other- tbh everything was well done that i have no complaints Conclusion- if you are still thinking should i watch it or not ? Just go and watch ,Thank me later Stop wasting your time reading reviews Just go and watch . . Tl:Dr- A must watch , watch it now or regret it later

Tip-Dont watch trailer or any other spoilers of the film just watch movie


Well-acted, well-directed, powerful and thought-provoking, The Shawshank Redemption encompasses all of the above, as it tells the incredibly inspiring story of friendship and hope. Both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman shine in their roles as inmates who develop a remarkable bond during their imprisonment, facing the struggles of prison life together and ultimately finding redemption. Although it focuses on a very familiar theme, The Shawshank Redemption stands out from the rest of the films in its genre, mainly due to the extremely intimate portrayal of its characters it has to offer. The film successfully uses its prison setting as a lens for society, and manages to present the audience with important life lessons throughout the storyline. Although not designed as a film of epic proportions, its nature does have an immense emotional impact on the viewer, which makes The Shawshank Redemption one of the greatest films of all time.

I have seen over 5000 films in the last 30 or so years. and as an amateur film critic, I am among the thousands (maybe millions) of movie buffs who also recognise that "The Shawshank Redemption" is one film that should be rated higher by film critics and be given more appreciation. It is superb!! entertainment!! However! to be ranked higher than The Godfather,Citizen Kane,The Seven Samarai,Raging bull,etc, What gives? If anybody can share with me their reasons for saying that this is THE GREATEST FILM OF ALL TIME?...over some of the films that I just mentioned, please explain. Am I missing something??
I will start my review off by saying that this film is very slow to start off. I'd say the first 30-45 minutes of it are very slow, and almost boring. BUT, that is about the only negative things I can say about this film. From that point on it is an absolute thrill ride. I would sit behind my computer and say to myself, "Next scene I'll turn it off. Next scene I'll go do something." And I never did. Something just kept me there, needing and prying to find out what would happen in the next second, and the one after that, and the one after that. The film seems to be building up exponentially to the ending climax, which delivers in phenomenal fashion. Not often do I get emotional about films, but this one almost did it. Absolute must see for anyone looking for a feel good film.

"The Shawshank Redemption" is nearly poetic, but misses slightly because of its straight-forward telling. That isn't a flaw really. It's just that considering some of the powerful human emotions and grandiose spritual scenes displayed, the film could have been legendary. Still, this film is destined to be a classic and rightfully so. Stephen King hasn't written another story that was better (Title "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption" in the book "Diffrent Seasons" which also contains "The Body" which was made into another great movie, "Stand By Me" starring River Phoenix). Tim Robbins and especially Morgan Freeman are outstanding. Drama rarely gets muchs better than this and the solitude of human existence is depressingly displayed here. Wonderful, wonderful!

Oh yeah, Morgan Freeman's explanation for being named "Red" is probably one of the purely humorous things you'll ever hear.
This film appeals to anyone, thats why its #2 on IMDB. This film for some reason made only 28 million at the box-office. I love Forrest Gump I really do, but this is the best picture if the year. It has some sorta quality that is rare in films that instead of pulling you away, it draws you closer. The 30th time you watch this film, you will still be drawn in closer. The film is magical. Don't ever forget that.
The best movie I have ever seen, every detail and every dialogue comes down to the heart, every line is classic! Knowledge alters your fate! One after another! Those close to Zhu are close to those who are black! Water can carry a boat and it can overturn!




This truly has to be the greatest film ever made. This film has you hooked from beginning to end and never loses its edge. And to think that it came from "Stephen King" although this is not the first time King has given us such a great flick ("Stand By Me", "Misery", "The Shining"). Whats more unbelievable is that it was snubbed of the Best Picture for both the Oscars and Golden Globe. Sure "Forrest Gump" was a great film but it's not often that you find a movie so captivating and can have such a beautiful, edgy and realistic storyline. Even the AFI's "100 movies 100 years" didn't include this in their list. Both critics and audiences have had positive things to say about this movie. I think that if you haven't watched it yet, then you truly can't understand what true movie-making is all about.
In my subjective opinion, Empire Strikes Back (1980) is the best movie and my personal favorite... But this movie, this movie is just soooo good... While it is not my favorite movie, it deserves the title of "Best movie of all time"...

It's never Boring, the characters are fun and relatable, and the motivations are just AMAZING!

This movie is worth a watch, any time
It makes me wonder how people can bash this movie and then rate such mediocre films above it. One thing we have to remember - yes, it's rated #1. Why? Because it is rare to find a person out there who hated it. Thus, it makes sense that it is ranked #1 - it has the highest AVERAGE RATING of all films voted upon here.

I loved the movie. And I didn't think that it was that hard to believe that there are men in prison who regret their crimes - much less that there were men in prison in the 60s that regretted their crimes.

Incredible that people use this space to rip on the movie because of it's number one status instead of giving it an honest review. Love it or like it, Shawshank is a good movie.



First of all, this is a marvelous, uplifting film with wonderful performances from Robbins and Freeman, a superlative score from Newman, is by far the best King adaptation (although that's not saying a whole lot) and has many terrific and emotional scenes, but get real folks. This is not the best film of all time - not even close. It's not even the best of 1994 ('Pulp Fiction' gets my nod), let alone the best prison flick (I'll take 'Cool Hand Luke' thank you and, if you include POW films, 'The Bridge Over the River Kwai' and 'The Great Escape' are both much better). Just think folks. Better than 'Citizen Kane,' 'Casablanca,' 'Gone with the Wind,' 'Lawrence of Arabia' or 'Schindler's List' (which also could be considered in the prison category by the way)!? I'm not criticizing this movie - just the lack of perspective. It's definitely in the top 10 of the decade and probably in cine history's top 5%. That should be enough.
Plot: 9/10 Cinematography: 8/10 Pacing: 8/10 Acting: 9/10 Music:9/10.
Certainly not a masterpiece. Lacks in many areas. I can't count this movie even in my top 20 chart. The Shawshank Redemption and "The Big Lebowski" are the most overated movies in my opinion.
I have seen this film over 25 times, it's the best film ever made. There is nothing bad about tit. Look forward to watching it another 25 times. Thank you frank darabont and everybody else that was a part of this absolute masterpiece. We should have a shawshank redemption day!!
The Shawshank Redemption doesn't deserve 10.. it goes beyond all ratings.. such movies come once in a lifetime.. and I can say, undoubtedly, that this is the best movie I've watched so far .. across all languages!! Makes u go deep down into ur soul.. makes u realize the true meaning of freedom.. makes u realize the importance of being hopeful!! It's 2019 and I'm definitely late in watching this movie.. but better late than never!! Truly beautiful..
I'm not a fan of violent prison movies and I certainly don't watch them twice. Shawshank Redemption is the first exception to that rule. I have to admit, that I hated the few violence scenes and the shooting, but in this movie it was necessary to convey the message of hope. Although I think that this is a wonderful, touching movie, I think it's also a fairy tale. Everything that happens to the main character is an exception, rather than a rule which weakens the movie.

Other than that, it's a marvelous story about friendship, survival and hope. Watch and see for yourself how a person survives hell on earth.
Let me try. As a former Cop injured on the job in 1998 it's sometimes easy to despair. For many of us It's almost as if, we cannot see the blessings in our life unless they are taken from us or we lose them. This movie is about Hope. That's what makes this movie so special. there is a deep lesson in this film and like a work of abstract art, it's what you chose to take from it that makes it whatever it is. For me it's the message that no matter what, it isn't over till it's over. And to quote the film. Get busy living or get busy dying. That's a message. I'm going to try to live it out. Also the entire cast are incredible in their roles.

The Shawshank Redemption is such a powerful example of how people can overcome any hardship, and it gives fantastic insight on the value of time and how its never too late to live. Encapsulated in the line "Get busy livin, or get busy dyin." With powerful performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, this is a once in a lifetime film expirience
Awesome movie ðŸ‘. Must watch movie. Acting is superb. How this movie underperformed at box office i don't understand.
Wonderful acting, good writing and a fantastic story provide for a classic that has kept up surprisingly well throughout the ages.

Well worth a watch even despite being an older movie.
I Thought To Myself At First When I First viewed this movie it wasn't at all going to be any worser than most movies i've seen. But I was wrong. It's the best adapted movie of all time and I think I ought say it's the best movie I've ever seen since The Dark Knight. I haven't seen The Godfather Francise Yet but don't really want to now that I've seen The Shawshank Redemption the very best movie and the top of my favorite movie lists. It's powerful and jaw-dropping and can get very emotional at times and the best thing about this film is Tim Robins the best actor of all time and Morgan Freeman clearly the main character of the film. The bad guys are the captain of the guards Mr Hatley I remember and Norton the Worton the biggest assholes I've seen in a movie that can drive you insane. And also Brookes and the guy with the beard around his cheeks can't remember his name they were good too. Best Movie of all time period 10/10
It is a great movie which received 7 Academy award nominations but lost to eventual winner Forrest Gump and ranked 1# on IMDb.So there was enough curiosity to watch this one.

It is a very intelligent film in terms of story telling.The director deserves kudos for extracting such fine performances from his lead pair,Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman who received Academy award nominations for their respective roles. Now the main question is does it deserve the top spot on IMDb.Well,the immediate answer is NO.The Godfather may be superior to The Shawshank Redemption by all means but it manages to hold its own and is complete as a film.Shawshank is a treat for the viewers.Do watch it for its gripping story well told.


I saw it again to try to remember if it is such a great movie. Well... it is a great movie. Stories, acting, directing. But... definitely not thet movie ever.
Here is a Film that shows you how vicious, and how humane, humans can be. Andy and Red are 2 of the most honest and memorable characters ever made, next to Dr. Strangelove and Charles Kane. If u want to see real human drama at its peak, see the Shawshank Redemption at least 2 times.
A marvelous film that reaches in and touches your heart like no other movie has done before. After I watched this movie I was so moved by it that I sat there and stared at the screen after the credits rolled up. That is how excellent this movie is. This is a movie that everyone in the universe should see. An absolutely incredible film. An easy 10/10
This movie is quite simply one of the greatest of all time. I have never felt for characters in a movie like I have in this one. It would have won the Academy Award for best picture if it weren't for Forrest Gump. I love that movie too, however, I think Shawshank is a more enduring movie. It's tale is more about the human spirit, and overcoming probably one of the most difficult situations anyone could ever face.

Man does not have to accept the arrangement of destiny, nor does he have to resist the arrangement of destiny, but when the destiny occurs, see his own character clearly and understand why he is at the threshold of destiny. Only when you understand yourself can you make the most appropriate choice in front of fate. In fact, the end of life, whether good or bad, being a boatman, or being a banker, is nothing but a different model of fate. What really matters is that becoming a boatman or banker is a willing choice. There is no good saying in life. Everyone has his own unique definition of goodness deep in his heart. He really chooses to conform to his heart and will eventually reach that end point. It is a pity that most of us use other people's definition of goodness to set our own lives. Those moments that accompany our inner conflicts remind us of the current choices are problematic. While we resist to face this conflict, we try to rationalize the inner conflict in various ways while using the willpower The way to force yourself to continue to move forward with conflict. Dear friend, are you like this?
We must make kung fu panda top of imbd join my movement people and bring the sacred movie the art work the pure beauty of a movie which is kung fu panda to top spot.
So many years have passed, every time I watch this movie again, I will be immersed in it, not to say more, this is always my favorite movie.
Some truths not much but a few are accepted by nearly every people. You may not love Lord of the Rings, Star Wars,Braveheart, Love stories, Grease or any big movie but YOU LOVE THIS. LOOK in IMDb it is in the second place but look how many people voted, more than 120000 voted so this is the secret first movie. It stimulates your neurons, something changes inside you. White, black, yellow, American, European, African all people meet in some ways. THE BIGGEST EXAMPLE IS SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION, everyone likes it -few exceptions. I sometimes think that we are all humans that are created in a way that we love this movie (or Darabont-director is not human so he made the movie for us to love it)Go talk to others ask about films then ASK ABOUT SHAWSHANK and see the change on their features then catch the smile of people when you talk about SHAWSHANK.Some truths not much but a few are accepted by nearly every people (beginning as finish) (finish as beginning)
No need to say much for this film, unless there's someone who hasn't watched it yet. A truly great piece of work, that has it all and moves me every time.
I don't know why people even bother making movies when this film exists. Any writer and filmmaker worth their salt will not be able to sleep going mad trying to create what this film was able to achieve. The greatest written film ever made.
It's been a long time since it released, but it's still the best movie ever for me.

It's always difficult to choose a favourite movie out of all the movies I have seen, but I really believe that this is the one. When I first watched it, I had not read the Stephen King novella, and had no idea what was going to happen, which made it much more enjoyable to watch. Of course, like any movie, this was not flawless, but was such a terrific emotional experience for someone who is seldom moved by cinema. This was such a cinematic triumph, and I couldn't believe that it didn't win any of its seven nominations at the Oscars. The performances were wonderful, captivating the mood of the film to sheer perfection. Nothing against Forrest Gump, but it should have been easily outclassed for Best Picture. It was also a good movie, but just nowhere near as memorable as this one.
Especially in this film. He can break your heart or make you laugh, and that's before he speaks. He will have you cheering at the end when "Red" gets in front of the parole board. I watched this only because someone told me it was great. It didn't look like a movie I'd like. Prison dramas aren't generally my thing. This one is different. The first half is brutal and at times difficult to watch, but it helps set the story in motion. You really feel you are there with Andy and Red. One of my favorite scenes is when the prisoners are on the roof of the prison drinking beer. You have to see it to understand what I mean. There isn't enough adjectives to describe this film I can only say that this one is definitely a must see. This one is right up there with "Amadeus" as my two favorite movies of all time. Please do not miss it.
I was wondered while seeing the top rated imdb movies list that what is so special about this movie which makes it stand at the top #1 rated movie,but after watching it I will definitely say that this movie has each and every right to be in no.1 spot what a pure classic cult film,the best it's a guide to the the entire society and ppl hatts of to the whole team.!!!!!


I didn't get why this movie was rated #1 but now I do this movie is wonderful beautiful spectacular any name in the book the acting is amazing it's intense it's heart wrenching when it needs to be horrifying when it wants to be and heartwarming in every way at the end. This movie is a certain tear jerker and is probably THE BEST redemption story I've watched in movie history I love it.
Shawshank Redemption is the type of movie that all prison movies should be. In fact it is the type of drama that every drama should be. To date I can't think of a film that has just as much or even more character development than this film. And what better place to have it in? Both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman make this movie what it is through the characters. Through Robbins, we can see a character who is determine and will never give up. And through Freeman we see a man who knows the truth about life inside and the bold truth. We see most of that through Freeman's reflection in his role as the narrator. I love everything about this film. The cast, sets, characters, scores, script, everything. There are only a few movie that are just as good as this; but shouldn't be compared because like some movies in the film industry because it is the key to cinematic brilliance.
I did not think this was a bad film I just think it's a bit overrated but everyone has there own opinion and that's fine. I thought the writing was amazing and it had some genuinely good shots and it was also very moving. This compared to Stephen kings other adaptations Stand By Me, The Shinning, Christine it just wasn't as good as those at least in my opinion. But I did like it and I do recommend it seeing as it's kinda a must watch for film lovers like myself.

This movie is good but not as 1st rank in IMDB it have an good story and real dram i did love it so i hope u enjoy it too like me :) i did really loved the morgan freeman act and also talking that was sooooo goood hope u enjoy the sound and act too.
How could this redemption happen? By will and wit. The will to be free and the wit to get freedom.
The Shawshank Redemption is simply one of the most emotionally strong movies made, Even Though it's not Divine, But The movie is still very powerful and interesting. The Cast is very Strong and Believable. Tim Robbins as Andy and Morgan Freeman as Red are just perfect.Bob Gunton as Warden Norton also did a great job. Like most of the movies created from Stephen Kings creativity this too is a great piece of gem. The Direction is one of the strongest of the 90s and the movie itself is has become the pride of the 90s era. All though the movie has many flaws but they are not really noticeable and does not really bother you. The movie is not the greatest you will see, but i can assure that its a movie worth watching for sure.
Based on the Stephen King novella "Rita Heyworth and the Shawshank Redemption". Of the many Stephen King stories that were made into movies, this is the truest adaptation. It was nominated and should have won best picture in 1993. The movie was cast perfectly with outstanding performances by Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman and Clancy Brown.

This movie is not your ordinary Hollywood flick. It has a great and deep message. This movie has a foundation and just kept on being built on from their and that foundation is hope.
The Shawshank Redemption is quite simply the greatest film of all time. I completely agree with the other reviews in that this film is something of the soul and can honestly have a huge impact on you. If there's only one film that you watch in life I think Shawshank would have to be the one I recommend the most - despite not being my favourite film of all time I still think it is the best. Undoubtably a 10/10, a complete masterpiece.


best movie ever. better than all other movies. even godfather which is number one on this site's top 250. best movie ever

17 out of 10

***** out of ****
No no fucin movie can be compared to this one. I'm out of mind man! The greteast movie ever undoubtedl!
This is one of the great movies of the '90s. It's a moving stories of the friendship formed between two prisoners and really shows how that even in the darkness, we all need the light to get in through the cracks. It works as a story on a literal level, at face value. But it's also a beautiful metaphor for anyone who feels trapped in life. An inspiring soundtrack.

To everyone who is asking why this movie is this highly rated: the story, direction, the casting, everything is amazing. It is absolutely beautiful and tells a unique story. Adapted from Stephen King's novel (which I love), this movie tells you the struggles and lives of men in prison and their life after. I suggest everyone to watch it. :)
Superbly scripted and casted. Stands the test of time. A story based upon friendship perseverance and how one man defied the odds. Sometimes it's best not to read too much about a movie and just allow the story to sink in. You won't be disappointed is all I want to say.

I looked on the IMDb list of the "top 250." This movie is number 1 on the list. That is way overrated. I can tell you that it was a good movie and deserves to be watched but it is not the best movie. Great acting makes this film enjoyable but the movie at times becomes boring and predictable. Good movie but not "fantastic" like many people seem to think. I enjoyed many other movies on the top 250 more than this film. If you want a great movie on the list check out The incredibles or the wrestler or toy story. They are better films in my opinion. Good movie but not fantastic like many people think. Way overrated!!!!!!!!!!!!!


As I said No words. Just watch it and enjoy the movie
I had heard so many good things about this movie, that I just had to see it. I was not disappointed. This is probably one of the best movies I have ever seen. Period. Tim Robbins was outstanding, simply outstanding. Morgan Freeman was wonderful and I did not know that Gil Bellows had so much in him. This movie was absolutely breathtaking. The scenery, the realism, the characters, everything was simply outstanding. I sat through the entire movie, spellbound by the whole thing, and then I rewound it and watched again. I've seen 6 times since, and I always find new and wonderful things everytime I see it. I loved it. It was amazing. This movie is not just about prison, but it's about friendship. A 20-year-long friendship between two inmates. I recommend this movie for anyone who needs to find out what real friendship is all about. This is truly one of the best movies ever.
Shawshank redemption is honestly one of Stephen King's best stories. Following the story of Andy Dufresne, a man charged with the murder of his wife is sent to Shawshank prison to carry out his life sentence. Andy defied any expectation of what a prisoner could or couldn't achieve and the power one could possess. With his inmate friend, Red, and his intelligence, Andy struggles to survive in prison with all his effort leading up to the grand finale. This movie is beautiful, it's brutal and emotional and it makes you question the American penitentiary system in the 1950's. But the point is that it's a heart warming story of two inmates, talking about hope, redemption and trying to figure out their next move. While there could only be one winner for the '94 Best Picture Awards, Shawshank deserved the title just as much as Forrest Gump so trust me when I say that you won't regret watching it.
I saw it a long time ago. What impressed me was that an old man didn't know how to live after he was released from prison. Everything outside was unfamiliar to him. He couldn't work, communicate and live normally. Finally, I choose to end my life. Habit is really an extremely powerful and terrible power!
This is a movie that a man should watch. How can it be? This is a movie that men and women should watch. One day in the future, I may come to review this classic with my son or daughter. Before the film is shown, I may say that this is the most beloved film in my life, which I will share with you today.
Sjsjsjsjd Djdjxjd Djxjxhx Ddjjxxj Dxjxjx asxkxkxjx Xjxjxjxjx Djxjx
Wow, this film was really something! I'm glad I started to watch all the top films of imdb.com's "All time Top 250 Movies" list. Sure, The Godfather triology and Seven Samurai were great movies too, but they were way too long and I felt they rather gave me pain in the buttocks than a touch in my mind. This movie, on the other hand, has this distinguished feature; you don't want it to end. I haven't felt that way since I watched the Matrix at the cinema back in its old glory days (that goes for both the movie The Matrix and cinemas, they're out of date nowadays :)). It also made very clear to me that I never want to go to an american prison, just as little as I would like to go to a turkish prison...


Just when one had thought no one can best outstanding movies like the Godfather along comes a movie like Shawshank, which simply blows the mind. It is a masterpiece of movie making and one which I never hesitate to watch - again and again.

As long as movies like this come along every once in a few years, I will always have faith in the movies

This is a very thrilling movie that kept me spellbound. The acting is first rate. Morgan Freeman is superb and so is Tim Robbins. The reason why in my opinion it only deserves 8 out of 10 rather than 9 is that the story is not that great. Anyone who has seen his or her share of prison films will have come across all the standard ingredients: brutality by the staff, abuse by fellow prisoners, corruption at the top, we have seen it all before (cf. for example Brubaker). Despite these reservations, the acting, music and direction makes up for it. An evening well spent!
After hearing all of the comments on this one, such as, "Greatest Ever Made," "I loved it," "why didn't it win movie of the year?" I had very high expectations upon seeing it.

I was not in the least disappointed. This movie IS all it's made up to be. Yes, without a doubt, you SHOULD see this movie.

The story is a thought-provoking one of hope, and how to find meaning in order in the apparent chaos of life. Andy escapes from the prison in an attempt to find himself, after his good friend Brooks, who has been released after decades of living in the prison, runs into bad fortune. Andy's other friend who is also released manages to find himself like Andy did through his help. This is a story of the torture humans inflict on one another and how it is escaped through hope.

10/10
Dont think this movie did its best few mistakes but still recommend it for interests.
This is quite far from being the best movie of all time. The characters are black and white in true blockbuster tradition. Everybody is either all good or all evil, and do not at all feel real. The plot is unoriginal (although it has a surprise ending, that's hardly original scriptwriting) The film is extremely cliche-ridden, and I don't recommend it to anyone who appreciate truly great films like the three colors trilogy etc.
I like the movie very much. It's great.I would recommend this movie to my friends.
There are too many comments on The Shawshank Redemption, and almost everything has been said ten million times. In order to avoid repetition, I will not say words like "hope" or "freedom". Of course, these are all very good, and they can also be felt from the movie the first time.

Well, let me talk about another word I have ever felt, "rational". Andy's victory is the victory of reason, and Andy's success is the success of reason. No matter what the situation is, whether it is good times or bad times, he remains calm, silently assessing the situation and doing what he can to achieve his goals.

This is a great talent!




This is the best movie I have ever seen, watching again and again many times but still feeling intact, thank you author!
Having just re-watched this last night for the 3rd time, I remembered the entire movie within 2 mins, but as always, I was totally gripped.

Timeless classic, forever one of the best movies of all time.

Well, more than two thousands comments and mostly positive why I need to write the comment for the simple reason I wants to pay a small homage to movie making and proving to the world that still every now and then Hollywood still come-up with rare gems. I watched this movie so many times and every time I sit through this movie from start to end which is quite rare these days to stick to a movie for more than 2 hours without feeling the patches of boredom or feeling the movie being bit long. I am still not sure what happen to Oscar which don't give best actor award to Morgan Freeman or best supporting actor award to Tim Robbins, well its really unfortunate. There is a saying about great movies, that great movies just made themselves and that's about it, you cant just make them again and again and among several of those great movies this movies will always stands. Frank Darabont will always be remember for his two outstanding work one is The Shawshank Redemption and another The Green Mile.
One of the greatest movies ever made, is one you can watch several times and still discover little magic in the script. Like that compass to know where north is in the treasure hunt. Unfortunately, mistakes happen, even for the number 1 rated movie. Repetition in min 42 and 25 when Andy wants to ask red for a special delivery.

Basically he uses the same line, and in real life, especially in a prison situation, that wouldn't have happened. "I understand you're a man who can get things" basically the same line Andy uses in both scenes and red responds also in the same way ... "I'm known to locate certain things from time to time" ...

Despite the mistake, it's difficult to see a movie like this one in cinema these days ...
This film paved the way for prison films and series of a similar style. The acting was beautifully done. A bit too long- my only gripe
Everything about the movie is perfect. its one of the movie that you have to see in your life.
This movie is definitely on my best of the decade list. It borrows heavily from a couple movies and makes a fresh, dramatic approach to story telling. Excellent directing, writing, and acting. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are awesome in this film. This is film-making at its best. I own the VHS and DVD versions of this film, and I highly recommend this film to everyone.
One of my favourite films ever. I first saw the movie shortly after it came out, I was around 16 years old. I like to revisit it every year or so and it's still as fresh as ever. Although there are some unpleasant realities and strong language, for once I think they are justified and not overly emphasised.

Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are superb. You would think a film set mostly in a prison would be depressing, boring even. Not so. I always feel uplifted after watching it and the final scene never fails to bring a tear to my eye. I like it so much I bought two copies on DVD in case I lose one. This should be on everyone's "must see" list.
This would have to be THE best movie that I have ever seen. The story of a wrongly convicted man. And the story of a man searching for meaning. And the story of an institutionalised man. This movie takes several different stories and turns them into one fantastic film.

Watch it a number of times to see all the stories come together in an inspiring manner that touches the soul. I can't recommend this movie enough. Morgan Freeman's performance of the narrating Red, and explanations of prison life are truly touching. Tim Robbins' portrayal of Andy is near perfect, no, it IS perfect.

Watch it, then watch it again.

You won't be disappointed.
It's fair to say that it's worth visiting several times; every time you repeat this film, you will see new concepts in front of you. This movie is full of existential concepts. At the same time, you can be free! Hope is the most important message of this film.
It is really classic, everyone has a desire for different freedom in their hearts, but they have to be bound by the real life, very contradictory individuals, I hope everyone can find true freedom like Andy.I love Morgan freeman

An excellent tale about enduring incredibly adversity and eventually triumphing. The incomparable Morgan Freeman sets the tone as narrator. This should not be seen as a "prison" movie, even though it is set in a prison. Tim Robbins, as the other major character and the man whose trials rival those of Job, is a good everyman. When this film was nominated for a lot of Oscars, Kathie Lee Gifford made a great show of ridiculing its title (on "Live with Regis and..."). She hadn't seen the movie and would probably be embarrassed to be reminded of the episode.
As someone who loves great movies, I must say this is my first review only because this film deserves every accolade it has received and will receive throughout the years....it is a rare priceless gem, a shining example of film perfection...I don't think I will ever see such a great film ever again in my lifetime. Everything comes together flawlessly in the movie, the actors, the plot, the direction, the cinematography, all of it producing a film for the ages....if Stephen King never writes another word, he and director Frank Darabont have given the world an amazing gift in this film...A sincere thank you just doesn't seem enough but you have my undying gratitude for this movie.
I've lost count of the number of times I have seen this movie, but it is more than 20. It has to be one of the best movies ever made. It made me take notice Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins like I had never noticed any actors before.
And searching for the light at the end of the tunnel, then watch "The Shawshank Redemption", you will be doing yourself a favour. That's it, I'm not going to talk about how good the movie is, as it has all been said before.

Yeah I agree this is not a bad film. Its got a story that sucks you right in and it plays its hand very well but it really doesn't stand up too closely to scrutiny in my humble opinion. The plot is rather riddled with holes (do you really mean to tell me that after all those years in prison and the searches the prison guards never found a tunnel behind the picture....Puhleeease... How stupid are we meant to think those prison guards are)and it really is just a well-made feelgood movie. Look, I enjoyed the movie but after reading many of the comments on this website it sounded like it was directed by God Almighty and starred his only-begotten son. A bit of critical judgement please.
This movie is uplifting and it is amazing and there are so many adjectives I could use to describe it so I won't waste your time...Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are amazing and the story is amazing, considering that I'm not a fan of King's works...I rated this a 10/10 for that wonderful film...


In the far western reaches of south west Wales I was lucky to be born to a father who had immaculate taste in film. At the tender age of 14, when I started to understand the complexity of human emotion I was introduced to this beautiful film. I remember the first time I sat and viewed the film, my father put the VHS in the video player and left me alone to begin my relationship with this film, from the age of 14 I reckon I must have watched this old film twice a year since and every time I still think this is probably the best film I have ever seen.

Just thought I'd express a little of how I feel about this film, hope you don't mind.

Al
One of the best movies ever made. That title gets thrown a lot but this movie truly deserves it.
Hope is a good thing, and maybe the best thing of all. I love this movie.
Will Andy be reshaped and changed for losing his freedom? In fact, the good and evil in people's hearts are not increased or decreased because of the loss of time and the change of environment.
Never lose hope, because it's around you all the time. Even when you feel desperate. Hope will find you and encourage you to keep on living. I love that "warm place with no memory". "Get busy living or get busy dying." "Rehabilitated? I don't have any idea what that means. To me it's just a made-up word, a politician's word." "Remember hope is a good thing."
Baya iyi movie ya hahahahhahahahhahahahahhahahahahahahahahahahhahahahahahahahahahahanananananannanokokkoooooopoononon.
as i was saying in the title this is way overrated...i can't believe they called it a psychological movie, and i think it's a copy of all escape movies in history. i mean yes, the acting is good, it has some good lines, but nothing more...it is a very normal good movie...just that
Finally watched this movie and it certainly lives up to the hype. Fantastic movie with some of the best acting that you will see. The two leads are really fantastic.
This movie made me realize that I movie is not just a moving screen. This movie shows us love of two friends to an extreme limit. A story of betrayal, prison and a hope of redemption. The Golden quote ' Fear can set you prisoner, Hope can set you free. ' I will call it 'Quote of the Decade'.

Can't believe this movie snubbed at Oscars and Box office.

Truly I love this film more than any other film.

Truly remarkable and unforgettable masterpiece.
The first movie I watched on my mobile phone was more interesting than this, the first movie my friends suggested to me and I did very well.

Thank you.
This is one of King's best movies. It's about a guy who is accused of killing his wife and is sent to prison. He meets a man named Red in prison who he sort of inspires to do more with his life. Near the end something happens that you would never expect and is very interesting. This is a great movie and the director did a great job in showing Stephen King's book and not wrecking it.
I love this film I don't know if it's Morgan freeman's voice or the acting or even the music it's all there but I know that it tells an amazing story.
This ain't "The Electric Company." Although all of the performances in this film are masterful (showing by turns both the depravity and the humanity of the prison experience) Morgan Freeman's role as "Red" is truly the centerpiece of this film - so good it defies description. All I can say is that of all the movies I own on DVD, this is one of my proudest purchases; a film I can play that not only shows off how good digital quality looks but that shows off how an excellent screenplay and great actors can come together to make a cinematic masterpiece.
Truly a masterpiece. This is one of those movies which you can watch over and over again and still find it as moving as the first time you watched it. This film can not be replicated, because the film is special; the Director wanted to make a piece of art of his film. The movie has no bad points it's what a story should be about, it takes you somewhere that you never been, and makes you feel you lived that experience, and you can learn from that experience. The lines delivered, will always be remembered 'Get busy living, or get busy dying' (this is the dilemma we face in everyday live). For this I give this movie a 10/10 and strongly recommend you to see it.
This film is destined to become a classic. It shows the human spirit in full force. The story is terrific with many wonderful characters. Morgan Freeman delivers a truly brilliant performance that received a well-deserved Academy Award nomination. Bob Gunton gives a wonderfully villainous, intense performance as Warden Norton. Darabont's direction is solid. The climax is wonderfully uplifting. On a personal note, I thought this film slowed down at times but these sequences were essential to the plot, they just seemed to distract me. This film is definetly worth a look.
It's certainly not better than The Godfather.

The characters in this movie are likable and the story is good. The music is also quite good but nothing else anything that stands out to me. The movie is a bit slow in some places. And i find quite some bits of this movie not particularly entertaining.

In conclusion: a good movie and it deserves to be in the top 250 but not above The Godfather and certainly not number 1
One of the most greatest movie of all time. A MASTERPIECE. A PRECIOUS GEM. A block of gold. A treasure chest of coins. Anyone who doesn't like this movie has some serious mental problems. Anyone who doesn't have tears has some feeling problems. Its truly shocking to see that this movie didn't get any oscars forest gump didn't deserve it.
It deserve 8-9 stars in my opinion, but no way this better than godfather, no way this deserve to be the top movie ever made in history



This movie is a masterpiece in terms of cinematography and direction during that time. The movie provides a lot of message that is easily digestible by all level of the community.
I saw this movie for the first time a year and a half ago. I liked it, but I didn't remember how much until it was on TV today. Everything comes together so well at the end, and on repeated viewing, there is a whole new level to it.

Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are both exceptional in their roles. Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a convicted murderer who goes to Shawshank Prison where he is befriended by Red (Morgan Freeman), who has already served 20 years there. Despite the hardships of prison, Andy refuses to lose hope, and he tries to inspire Red to feel as he does.

I can't think of one scene that was wasted. Everything helped build to the movie's conclusion. Every character was important, as was every line of dialogue.

I actually cried at the end. This movie really makes you think and touches your heart. Next to Pulp Fiction, the best movie of the 90's.
A1 storyline. A1 scripting. A1 casting. A1 directing. A1 cinematography A1 costume. A1 locations. How can you beat this?

In my opinion, this is the perfect movie. Perfect characters that are fleshed out flawlessly. The story sounds cliche but it is done perfectly.

Final Score: A+
The central idea is hope, freedom, and institutionalization. Rita Hayworth is so beautiful.
THE MOVIE IS GOOD BUT NOT UNIQUE. YOU CAN FIND A LOT OF THIS KIND. ITS NOT EVEN CLOSE TO PERFECTION LIKE THE GOOD,THE BAD AND THE UNGLY.
I'm not usually one to enjoy these kinds of movies. I typically like to go for a sci-fi or a horror movie. I watched this with my mom and it was amazing. The acting is stupendous and the storytelling really transports you right into the story. They did such a nice job of even identifying the problem with institutionalism and expressing it through the prisoners. I actually live near the prison this was shot in and think I may be taking a tour there now. (The prison is closed down and haunted so you can go and actually tour it)
This film is probably one of if not the best sleeper hits in film history. Of all the votes cast on IMDb, I bet less than 1% saw the film at the cinema. Like all sleeper hits, under-hyped at the time of release, when you watch it and revel in its brilliance, your hair standing on end in parts, it feels more personal to you than a massive blockbuster. I think this is why it is so over-rated. it is not a ten. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are so fantastic and the story is so emotionally wrought that it is possible to get carried away. But better than the Godfather? Gimme a break!!! We are comparing the work of a superb craftsman with the work of a visionary artist whose films have had more influence on modern cinema than anyone bar perhaps his old film-school mates. A fantastic, hugely-credible tearjerker. By the DVD, get it out now and again, get yer tissues ready.
What can I say about Shawshank Redemption this movie has everything you possibly can in a movie like great writting,great acting,and great directing.Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins give thier best performance of thier life in this great movie.Frank Darabont does a great job with the writting and Directing.I'm surprised this movie didn't win any oscars.Who cares this movie is still the greatest thing to ever hit the theater.This movie is going to be remember forever.This is truly a great movie in every category.A classic to always remember.

If you haven't watched Shawshank Redemption ,you have missed the best movie of all times.
"The godfather is widely regarded as the greatest film of all time" The critics say. The Shawshank Redemption seconds that


One of the best films ever made. I thought it was very spiritual, in the sense that I learned a very powerful lesson that has helped me in my daily living. Never give up hope. Acting is superb, directing is great, story is wonderful. Highest recommendation.
The Shawshank Redemption was a film that I was always on my way to the theater to see, but unfortunately, I got sidetracked each and every time. Critics felt that the long title kept people away, I guess I was in that category, no matter how great I heard this movie was. I finally saw the movie the day it hit videotape. To this day, it continues to dominate the number one position on my list of favorite films of all time. There is so much to love about this film. Especially the writing by Frank Darabont. This is one of the few films that does Stephen King's material justice. It's a very uplifting story, one that you can't really articulate with words. This film is about the experience. I'm proud to say that I own a copy of the movie, a copy of the screenplay, and a copy of Different Seasons, in which the original story derived. This is the one picture I recommend to people, even strangers, on a regular basis.
This is what movies are truly made for. This is movie making as an art form. This movie deeply conveys more human insight than I thought possible in something so short and simple as a film. It deals with sin, love, friendship, fear, greed, persistence, frailty, hope, courage, cruelty and a whole array of other human traits, and it deals with all of them in an amazingly complex and full manner. This is a prime example of a creation that allows us to understand another's soul. It does this through words, sounds, facial expressions, in short, everything that a movie can offer us in condensed form that we often don't pay attention to in life. We have to pay attention here. We can't look away. If you can come out of this movie without finding something out about yourself you haven't really experienced it, perhaps you've just watched it. I give very few movies a 10, because nothing man made can ever really be perfect, but some things come close. This is one.

Shawshenk Redemption is truly on a level of its own. Fantastic plot, writing etc. The ending is probably the most baddass ending in a movie ever. What I really love about the movie is its incredibly realistic portrayal of evil and the harsher realities of life. The movie feels 5 hours long, but by the end you wish it were 10 hours. Extraordinary acting by Morgan Freeman, Bob Gunton and the rest of the cast. However, I only gave it a 9 because there is always room for improvement.
It doesn't matter what kind of genre or style of film you prefer. Shawshank Redemption wvas made to be enjoyed by everyone.
The characters, the plot, their friendship...just beautiful. I loved everything about this movie. I've never seen such a brilliant movie in my life. It' 2022 and I'm a bit late but I'm definitely going to rewatch it one day.
If someone says can patience be great??.to ans this they need to watch this.awesome screenplay,direction and the performance was minf blowing
Yes...just an amazing movie it is...one of the best movie
Amazing acting, props are the best, locations look such the part, one of the best films ever. Music matchs too. Emotions are mixed.
Andy said 'There are places in the world that aren't made out of stones .There is something inside that they can't get to ,that they can't touch .' This is the best movie I've ever seen, calm and warm, every details, every dialogue, go straight to my heart, every line is classic! Knowledge changes destiny. Close to the red ink near the black! Water can carry a boat and overturn it! The self-seeking life is not just a dream, just how to do it. Whatever the end, the process is important. A long road to freedom, a deep soul washing, an immortal inspirational classic," Hope "follows God's will to sleep in the hollowed-out Bible inside, clinging to Andy's tall body, prostrate in a 500-yard sewer, and finally, the only dirty road to send Andy to the beautiful new world.

Not much more can be said that already has been said about how truely a good movie shawshank is. Morgan freeman really elevates the film to almost masterpiece status with his characters insight and voice. The movie can in many ways, be seen as an allegory of never giving up for a better future even with horrible circumstances that come in life. An absolute must see!
Since everyone has already covered the bases, and don't feel like retyping all the same acclaims, I will simply say this touching, powerful film is single handedly one of the GREATEST FILMS EVER of the 20th Century!!! If you haven't already seen it for the wonderful acting, wonderful plot or wonderful directing, see it for Morgan Freeman's stupendous performance alongside some other class actors! This is one of his best works, which says a lot :o)
Great movie. A must watch. Really enjoyed it. Great acting and everything. Hollywood needs to make more movies like this.
There is just so much good in this film.

I'm really surprised that it is ranked as highly as it is. I don't agree that it is the second best film of all time. I do think it is an extraordinary movie, tho.

I could go on and on about it, but many other people have already done that. But it is obligatory to say something, isn't it? How about:

You can make this movie very strange by getting lightly buzzed and pretending that Tim Robbin's character is actually Nuke Laloosh from Bull Durham. ;)
There's a reason it carries a 9.3(currently lol) on IMDB. This movie is almost perfect to me. A shame really, it ran into the buzsaw of Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction for Oscars. Because this movie is a masterpiece straight up. Also, the director(Frank Darabont. Look him up) doesn't ever get nearly enough credit. Much like this awesome film.
It is the best movie i have ever seen.Watched it 5 years back and was mesmerized. Just can't stop myself watching it again and again whenever it airs on TV or get a chance to recommend it to someone. Usually i don't like the movies based on this theme. i just watched it as it appeared on the top and believe me it blew my mind as i finished watching it. The storytelling, screenplay, direction everything is just awesome and cannot be better. I have seen most of the IMDb's top movies. some remain on top some loose, but this one can't be dethroned. As I am watching this for 10th time(which i usually don't do, and neither do I write reviews :)), it came in my mind to give this masterpiece a tribute by posting the review. If you haven't seen it, go watch it as soon as possible. you will remember the masterpiece for years.


It wasn't even my idea. It was a female friends idea. I hadn't read any reviews. So i went and i watched it. And i thought it was quite a pleasant, well-made film. I didn't think it was the best film ever made. It was obviously different to your average Hollywood Blockbuster (the same year's Pulp Fiction it is not!)- slow paced with a director happy not to rush things.

And here we are nearly 20 years later and it's a lot of people's favourite film. It's not my favourite film but it's grown on me and i've been forced to reappraise it. And now i think it's a lovely film, lovingly made and when you've had enough of aliens blowing up The Whitehouse, scantily clad students dancing and wise-cracking cops shooting everything insight this is the antidote and really there should be more films made like this. It puts the "good" in "feel good movie".
One of THE best movies ever made, never get tired of it. The themes of hope, friendship, and faith have never been so well presented on film.
What made this movie so great, was not the actors or the story, it was the narration by Morgan Freeman. His way of story telling really brought the story to life, along with great acting and a truly remarkable story by King.
Honestly, it's hard to think of a movie better than this. It has everything on an emotional level. Fear, love, hate, temptation, sadness, happiness, and of course...redemption. I seriously mean everything. The ending when two friends finally reunite in the belief that they live happily ever after, is mesmerizing. The shot of Andy and Red hugging it out on the beach, as the camera zooms out sends chills down your spine. If you haven't seen this movie, I do not know what you are waiting for. The characters are all great, the acting is superb. The people they want you to root for are easy to root for, and the ones they want you to root against, are easy to root against. Superb job from the actors, directors, cinematographers, etc. One of the best movies ever made, maybe the best I have ever seen.


This movie is of great philosophical dept. A movie full of realisations.
I watched this movie when I was 11 years old with my mother for the first time. I had no idea what it was about before I watched it and never even heard of it. At the end, it changed the way I looked at movies. This movie taught me so much. I can't even start on how beautiful it is made, how well it is written, the cinematography, the acting, everything is just spot on.

Consensus: See it for yourself. That's all I can say.
A really good movie, it's very touching. I feel bad for dufresne, but i'm also happy for him because he learnt something he never would have learnt if he was a free man. I give it an A+
Off course Greatest movie all the time.this is world top ten movies.
I've been watching 15 to 30 films a month for the past 5 to 10 years, and I evaluate a film by its ability to captivate my senses, regardless of how many times I've seen it. I don't have to tell you, then, how much I've adored this film. I suppose, for the sake of public appeal, Forrest Gump deserved the Oscar win, but Shawshank deserved the nomination, and Tim Robbins should've at least been nominated for best actor. What can I say? See the film- it's pure artistic perfection.
I did not see Shawshank Redemption in the theater and was hesitant to see it because everyone told me what a great movie it was. Usually when that happens and I see the movie it never lives up to the hype, SR not only lived up to its hype but surprassed it. Anyone who didn't like this movie either has no heart or no brain. It's a movie which forces you in a gentle way to think and to feel.
This is the perfect movie. There are longer reviews that do a great job of summarising why.
It is certainly my all time favorite movie to watch it was dark, Intense and incredible of a film and definitely the most inspirational drama film ever made Since Forrest Gump. It tells a story of banker Andy Dufresne who is sentenced to the Shawshank State Penitentiary for the murders of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence. Over the following two decades he befriends a fellow prisoner, contraband smuggler Ellis "Red" Redding and becomes instrumental in a money-laundering operation led by the prison warden Samuel Norton. All in all this is one of the best films of the decade and definitely my all time favorite movie as well.
Frank Darabont's film based on Steven King's story is absolutely inspirational. Great performances all round and it keeps the viewer attached throughout. The Shawshank Redemption is quite long, yet you don't notice it, instead you notice the genius that has gone into this film's creation. See this film, no matter what your movie preference.
It's a good film that has no hostess, no love and no stunt. It's also a film that many college English teachers like to show to their students. It tells a very pure story. It's a redemption, in exchange for freedom. It's also a belief that drives him to do so. It's a touching film, which also makes many people grow up.

When we have no choice but to encounter the kind of prison as xiaoshenke imprisoned the freedom of the soul, we are helpless old Brooke, frustrated red, or the wisdom of Andy?Use wisdom, trust hope, and brave fears to defeat it? Classic movies are classic because they are all doing the same thing-let you appreciate the beauty of hope from different angles.
You know, some birds are not meant to be caged. Their feathers are shining with freedom. A movie that can stand the test of time.
I get lost in watching a great movie!

I should have written this review years ago but.time works differently for everyone and we all have priorities so it's not too late anyway.
When you talk about which film is the best? Some say it's Citizen Kane, the same goes for The Godfather 1 and 2, and pulp fiction. Well, pulp fiction and Godfather are good, nobody mentions this Stephen King adaptation. Man, I can't believe that it didn't even one single Oscar. The plot feels original, it's sometimes unique, and a nice adaptation. I want to be spoiler-free, and it's tough because It's flawless. Man, everybody got to watch this movie once in a lifetime, believe me, u won't be disappointed... This is the longest review I have ever written...
This is one of the best moves ever. Great story and great actors.

Not much to say...a powerful movie that you will never forget! Great story with a meaningful message and exceptional acting that deserves the highest rating.
Let me just say that I liked the movie. I love Freeman, I respect Robbins. Reading King. But the review is red. I explain:

In the IMDB list (as well as on Kinopoisk), films often float, sometimes climbing to second place in the list, and then dropping to one hundred and ninety-third, etc. The picture is changing. But one thing remains the same: The Shawshank Redemption comes first.

The site has almost the entire filmography of mankind, but this story remains the best. Yes, the story is good, as is the setting of the film. But is this the best thing that the world has created in more than a century of work? Is that what worries people? The most pressing? Deeper than 'Forrest Gump'? More classic than the tacitly declared must see 'Titanic'?
When I first came across the title "Shawshank Redemption" I didn't have a clue as to what it was about, since I didn't know the plot. But it had Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman as it's stars, so I figured that it was worth a peek. What a peek!! This movie is awesome!! Not the classic tale of a innocent man being sent to jail for a crime that he didn't commit, this movie was much more detailed. It shows you how cruel prison life can be. (Although, if you want a better picture of prison life today, I suggest watching "American Me") You have everything in this picture, Corrupt Prison Warden, Sadistic Guards, and a innocent man caught in the middle. You can not help but admire Tim Robbins character "Andy Dufresne" as he waits patiently for almost 20 years before he is able to rectify his situation. Talk about patience and perseverance! This is one movie that will tug at your heart. Excellent movie.
That's normally pretty hard to say, though the fact that the book is a Stephen King novella (150ish pages +/-) makes sense why the movie is better. Not bashing King here, just saying most of the movies based on his work tend to be pretty decent and novellas aren't meaty enough for my taste. Most the time when I finish a novella I wish there had been more substance.

As far as the movie goes, I'm sure everyone else has mentioned why it's so great. If you love this movie check out the book, they're pretty much dead on besides a few details. Unlike other novellas of King's e.g. Apt Pupil ... the extra details in that book made it so much better than the movie.
Gripping..Compelling!! In the lead roles, both Robbins and Freeman are outstanding, layering their performances with snippets of individuality: Their small, daily sustenance and minor triumphs are wonderfully inspiring. Though the film is perhaps a little slow in its middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final redemption.
The Shawshank Redemption is the quintessence of film regarding life in prison and the different aspects of the human condition. The film survives without needing hard violence, language, or sexual themes. Performances by the cast are what make this movie feel authentic and bring the characters to life.
The development of the characters and story line are so intricately designed that you forget the this could be considered a "period" piece of sorts. The movie goer that likes authenticity along with the depth of drama ,will be pleased. The setting and cinematography for the time is on point and accurate. The relationships between the characters grow and have resolutions . Engaging the watcher to be inspired. Also, the carriage of the film over time lets you have an intimate experience with each character. The film score has a diversity of music genres and that will please many a generation, many a life lesson is conveyed thru the use of a stellar actor portraying the character flawlessly.
I learned and loved from the story. This is my first time loving an actor based on their stories and how they developed scene by scene it makes me one to reminiscence again and again. Full with a lot of good tears and comedy, this movie deserved to be #1 movie in its era.
If I have to write a listo of 5 movies that you should see, this is one of them
Probably one of the greatest movies ever made no wonder it's on the top of the 250 List. I was personally holding back from watching it but the moment I found out Morgan Freeman was in it I just couldn't resist. Indeed it's been quite some time since the movie got released but it's just one of those golden works of art that can be picture at any time or place
Lets me know i dont want to go to prison. he was innocent and ultimately got back at his captors. and he made a good friend.

This movie is more than entertaining .. In some ways it is aspirational and give us the actual meaning of hope.

I absolutely LOVE this movie, and I've seen it many times over, but I've never thought of it in biblical terms before. I'm also not very religious so the Christ parallel did not occur to me. Now that you mention it, it's almost too obvious.
I can't even go into words about how this film moved me. The themes of hope and friendship are the powerful strings that tugged at my heart through out. A flawless masterpeice with excellent performances by Freeman and Robbins. For years, I've heard a lot of talk about this movie. Damn, I'm glad I finally saw it.

10 out of 10....to say the least.
I find it hard to believe how I missed this movie in the theaters. A friend of mine told me I should see this movie when it was taken off the new release rack. I looked at it and just shuddered. He had to rent the movie himself and drag me into his dorm room physically before I saw it.

I can't believe how good it was. He paused it for 10 minutes in the middle so he could answer the phone and I went nuts. I couldn't wait to see the rest of it.

I can't wait until this comes out on DVD. Until then, I will settle for my VHS copy. Go see this movie. :)

10 out of 10
I really liked this movie.. it really was good and interesting
After seeing this movie again there isn't any words that I can think of to adequately describe what a truly great movie the Shawshank Redemption represents. Every human emotion was perfectly portrayed right down to the coldness of the Shawshank's concrete and steel. This is Morgan Freeman's best movie to date and likely Tim Robbins best movie ever. The cast's acting job is top notch. The period and setting, perfect. Thomas Newman's music score, perfect. Supporting cast, perfect. I think that this is the only movie that I can not think of one single thing that would improve it. Nothing. Owning this movie would be the crown jewel in anyone's collection.

If you haven't seen this movie stop reading this now and go to the nearest video rental place, rent this movie, and come home and spend the best 2+ hours you will ever spend watching a movie. Really! Stephen King is King. I can't understand what this movie is only #2 on IMDB and not #1.
The movie cannot be expressed in Words, Awesome it was, Just beautiful
This film didn't win the Best Picture Oscar? It would have been under-appreciated even if it had won, an Oscar isn't worthy enough to be associated with this amazing film. They should have created a separate award for this movie--"The Best Film Ever" award.

Shawshank Redemption is entertaining and well made. It's not, however, the greatest movie of all time. It's a thoughtful film and is remarkable for appealing to people who don't usually put a whole lot of thinking into their cinema. It covers the greatest range of viewers for like-ability from the Fast and the Furious crowd to the Lost in Translation audience. I don't think it'd attract big numbers from the cinema nerds of Eraserhead fandom though. That's not to say that Lynch fans should have a more weighted vote on IMDb. It's just that if you're into your cinema and you watch a lot of good films, from obscure to popular, then being told Shawshank Redemption is the best film of all time is like hearing someone say Radiohead is the best band ever. Yes, they're very good but you suspect their cheerleaders are only comparing them to Coldplay, U2 and REM.
Wow! after i watched it today I'm so moved and happy... The story is so good, the message is Hope and makes me love the movie more. The cast did a good job, I love this movie. Simple, realistic, emotional,funny and amazing. Plus I love the cleverness
The feathers of some birds are too bright and should not have been kept in cages.

Perhaps the point of the story is not that Andy was finally freed from prison. Instead, he repaired the roof on the balcony and liked to watch everyone enjoy cold beer. Perhaps he would rather be detained and listen to a classical music. When people are the least free and when their personality is most disrespected, they do not abandon their firm belief that they are "human." This is the most precious thing.
If Hollywood were the bakery section at your local supermarket, "The Shawshank Redemption" would be that sweet rich carrot cake they sometimes have--obviously commercially produced to appeal to as many people as possible, but nevertheless infinitely better than a plastic-wrapped snack-cake like "Forrest Gump", which goes down easy but leaves a funny taste in your mouth for hours afterward.

Of course if this movie were a cake, I suppose it'd have a file in it.
The Shawshank Redemption (1994)

The Belives of Two Friends.

The Synonym of the movie was 'how to change our life with our perspective'

"Self-believe" which makes possible impossible.

Affective story telling with prison life, Inspiring, Followable, Feel good.
I can't think of a better American film. Two strong actors, a thorough director, raw emotion, and a tear jerking ending... and then let's not forget the memorable screenplay and score. This film is what makes going to the movies what it is. It's one of those cinematic defining films that's nigh impossible to replicate, and something like it may only come everything 30 years.
That's right, this film is so amazing, it doesn't need to stand behind a flashy tag line in a review. this film can speak for itself, Frank Darabont's true masterpiece.

Tim Robbins gives an Oscar-gypt'd performance as Andy Dufresne, an upstanding banker, framed for murder and sentenced to two life terms. There he meets Red (played by the immortal Mr. Morgan Freeman, who gives us the best voice-overs in movie history.) In prison, Dufresne becomes well known with the inmates for his courage, after being raped basically everyday for a month, and hope that the justice system will see him through.

This film is a true masterpiece that can only come from years in the movie business, but Frank had close to none. He had only done two films before that weren't very good, I guess this proves what you can do with raw talent today.
Shawshank deserves to be named one of the top 10 movies ever created and its a shame it came out the same year as Forrest Gump. Any other year in the 1990's and it would have obtained the Best Picture Oscar. Morgan Freeman gives the greatest performance of his career and considering all the memorable performances he's given, thats really saying something. Robbins is also terrific as Andy Dufrense, the wrongly convicted wife killer. James Whitmore also gives a memorable performance as the lovable Brooks Hatlen. Frank Darabont really outdid himself with this masterpiece. A must see for all ages!

My rating : @@@@@ (out of five)
I wholeheartedly agree with reismark's review of the film. It is excellent. I want to note, however, as the treasurer of a library system, that people should remember that rental and purchasing are not the only options. If you learn about your local libraries, you'll find that many of them, perhaps most of them, have collections of video on VHS and DVD which rival rental stores. In most instances, these materials circulate without charge, although some libraries charge a nominal fee to rent very recent titles. In the library system to which I belong, even rental titles are potentially available free, since we insist that there must be at least ONE copy in the system which circulates without a fee.
After reading it, it is thought-provoking.It is a great honor to see this movie.

The Shawshank Redemption is a fantastic film that is a must see for anybody. It has one of the most intriguing and intersting stories of any film ever, and is well-directed, acted, and written. Everything about this film is fantastic.
If stranded on a desert island I want this film to be there with me.... This film sits at the very top (with clear space) above any other film ever made.. The best of the best.. I cant remember (like most) this film coming out. I watched it like 97% off everyone else on DVD.. How this didn't get the bums on seats in the cinemas must have been a marketing balls up.. However DVD sales and now streaming services has helped this film become a favourite of many many people. Things to do in life before you die is to watch this film... not once but a few times.. this film ticks every box. Its wonderful..

This movie is great. I watched it in 2020, 25 years after it was released & now I know why it's the best movie at IMDB. The story is absolutely amazing with a very nice end. It's not one of the endings where you're asking yourself what? Is that all? Do I have to figure out what's going to happen? The actors did a great job. Though the movie is very long it wasn't boring at once. Sometimes it's very sad and you feel bad for the Charakters, but very often you have to smile, not because it's funny, because it's amazing.
Definetely deserves the Top Spot On IMDB, The Shawshank Redemption was, is and allways will be my personal favourite Movie ever made. My highest Honor and the biggest Movie Recommendation i can made.
Took me a long time to see this movie, but finally decided to watch it and wasn't disappointed. Probably most movie fanatics know the movie so I won't focus on the movie that much, but the feeling of watching it. This one truly feels like a classic story with the storytelling, having a clear plot, but still keeping us on your toes on what is going to happen. It depicts in a real fashion on how life can be and not being boring at any point. Story guides on one direction, but every moment feels like it could turn to a different direction. Really great storytelling, creating the feeling of hopelessness, character build and classic plot from start to finish. I truly enjoyed watching this from start to finish, nothing felt superimposed.
The movie Shawshank Redemtion written and directed by Frank Darabont. It is an adaptation of the Stephan King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. Starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, the film potrays the story of a banker Andy Dufresne who is sentenced wrongfully for the murder of his wife and her lover. Andy was sentenced to two life sentences at Shawshank State prison. In the jail he forms a frienship with a inmates named Red. It mainly potrays how Andy dig a tunnel to escape prison and also of the fradulant jailer ,who was later exposed by Andy.
I bought this film just due to its high score on IMDb. I was not disappointed. My comment to my wife after seeing this, was "nothing actually happened, but I could still not take my eyes from the screen". This movie works like emotional magic to a guy who normally swears to action, horror and FX movies. Hats off to the actors, the script writer and the director.

And no hats off to the IMDb people who make me write 10 lines. I don't care if I'm banned from writing more reviews by adding these final meaningless lines. I've used IMDb since it was born, and this is the first time I've actually felt like telling the world a movie is worth watching. It's probably also the last time, so just ban me from commenting further.
I saw this movie last week and I must say that it is the most wonderfull movie ever made in human history. It contains all elements that makes a movie big, and how big, damn I was completely blown away when the movie ended. Its about a man (Andy Dufresne)(Tim Robbins) who is judged guilty and ends up in "ThE ShAwShAnK PrIsOn", he meets Red (Morgan Freeman) and become friends, I've never seen such a great acting like this two together. Andy Dufresne is the hope itself and has to face a hard time in prison till...Im not gonna reveal the movie any further because YOU MUST SEE IT, Its just the best movie ever made, Memento, Schindler's list and American History X were awsome but this one will blow you completely away! 10 out of 10 and even more if it could be. --------ENJOY IT--------
Everyone is his own god. and only he can save himself.
Be a man keep on the things u do u van succeed in thw end.
I have come here, writing my review, after just watching this wonderful film. My soul is full! Overflowing tears of joy down my face. Therefore, I am afraid that the tremendous emotion tremble will not let me be objective. However, I really do not care; I'm just writing to share with all of you the greatness of this movie. A movie that brings to screen hope, despair, true friendship, perseverance and human nature like no one before. If you just are reading reviews to see if the film is worthwhile, well don't lose more time and watch it!


Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give us some of the most memorable performances of all times. In this wonderful adaptation of S. Kings short story, the human spirit and hope triumph over injustice and "the system". It will make you think. No doubt this will go down as one of the best dramatic movies of all times. I can't say too much or I will spoil it.
Like few movies do, the shawshank redemption capture that feel and atmosphere of a good movie. I find myself watching this movie over and over. It does a good job of wowing you whilst shocking you. Do yourself a huge favor and watch this movie!
"I guess it comes down to a simple choice really. Get busy living or get busy dying"

This wonderful movie just explain that hope, solitude, and pain are worth for freedom

"Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things and no good thing ever dies"

This is one of the great films of all time. One of the 10 best I've ever seen. The cast is perfect. Tim Robbins was great! So too were Morgan Freeman as Red (a part actually written for a red haired Irishman) and Bob Gunton as the Warden. James Whitmore shows that small parts still require great acting and he is as good as ever. I recommend this film highly.
I love it so much... I dont want to spoiler you, but you have to see it. I like how the characters are described and much more... You really have to see it!
Stephen King does create wonderful short stories and while I think his books are hardly manageable on the silver screen I think his short stories are. Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank redemption is the perfect example. With a great cast and an intriguing but not overly complex story this film has everything it needs to be a masterpiece. The actors have great chemistry together and while I don't appreciate the changes that were made, I do understand them. The director caught the feeling of the short story and created a believable experience. Some of the scenes are light hearted to an extent were you expect them to be free the next moment just to tear down this scene and show the degrading brutality of prison.
I like "The Shawshank Redemption," but cannot understand why it is rated so highly. While it's well-acted, the direction is pedestrian, and the story is derivative.

While it should be somewhere in the top 250, rating it above movies like "Citizen Kane," "Lawrence of Arabia," "The Seven Samurai," "Chinatown," "Memento," etc. strikes me as ludicrous.


Shawshank captivates human emotion on a deep level. The characters are believable and deep, the story is immersive and captivating, and it is long enough to truly paint a canvass. The performances are powerful and true. I do believe this to be one of the ten to fifteen truly timeless pieces that will never age. It is amazing.

Definitely own it.
First I must say that The Shawshank redemption is with no doubt a masterpiece.It is important to say that these days Hollywood is not making quality artistic movies,it is all about blockbusters,high budgets,commercial movies and special effects.Well,this movie on the contorary is one of the most important films of the 90's and maybe the most touching movie of all time.Full of or realist emotions this movie touches the heart of the average viewer in a very impressive and original way.It is a tale of hope and dreams of freedom.In 1994,almost unknown Frank Dourbunt created a movie that changed the movie history and showed to people that in the day of special effects and extremely gory film there can be a film totally different from all the others.Morgan Freeman and Tim Robins are great in this movie and they really deserved numerous awards that they received for making this film.There are many people who claimed that his movie changed their way of living and thinking in a good way and that is the biggest thing that a product of the 7th art can achieve.

I don't know how to say about this movie. This is the movie which tells me its theme the strongest of all movie I have ever watched. I think the theme of this movie is Living. The location is the prison where most people may lost their hopes, but people lives there spend their life in their own way. There are many problems which we don't want to recognize it is true in prison. This movie shows that there are a lot of people manage to live in such a terrible place. All People have different life, and all people live desperately and all people will die someday. The way to live is different like the life. Some people finish their life by themselves, and others try to keep their life hardly whatever happened. Nobody knows what is right and what is wrong, but one thing I'm sure is they everyone can have hopes and it doesn't make us unhappy. Having hopes can lead us to our future, even if it takes a long time. I learned those from this movie. I think the more I watch this movie the more I can learn from that, so I want to watch this movie again and again.
What makes this film one of the best ever made is the message it conveys. It is one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins, has been sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he never loses hope. He never gives up his quest to become a free man again. His years of tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane, but it gives his mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a different feel to it. There has never been anything like it before and I don't know if there will again
A day full of thoughts after you watch this and the remarkable feeling how you make a movie like this. Time is totally worth it. Don't expect it as a random prison story. Plain and simple.No action and effects. The truth to ultimate reality. No goofs as there's an explanation to every scene. I think every actor in the movie gave their best performances. Just awesome. Sad feeling all around but ending is awesome.Character Andy comes out to be cooler than you think he is and shows everyone this isn't it and you might think and which i thought to be so straight forward was his lucky cell location...which can certainly be overlooked because after this is what he deserved as he was innocent!
Such a beautiful quote: " Hope is such a beautiful thing afterall"
IIve loved his movie from the time i was young. it teaxches you a lot about life.
Getting to see The Shawshank Redemption was for me a lengthy process, but when I finally caught it it was more than worth the wait. In the history of movies there have been many impressive debuts from promising directors. With The Shawshank Redemption, Frank Darabont has vaulted himself into the ranks of Orson Welles and John Huston. There has not been a more memorable movie experience in the last decade, and it gratifies me to see that users of this site regard this film as highly as it ought to be.

"Some people's wings are so brilliant that even the darkest prison in the world can't besiege them for a long time." this is a movie full of hope. Whenever I feel tired, seeing this movie will be full of power.
The most powerful note about hope. Good movies, like good songs, will not be forgotten with the passage of time.On the contrary, every time we watch and listen, we will have new harvest and different experience.From the first time I saw it, to the time when the negative frustration came,I always turn on this movie to get the courage and strength to face life.
One of the best movies that I saw. Great actors, story, soundtrack, dialogues, and ... it's all perfect. The storyline and events of the film do not allow you to feel repetitive or bored for a moment.

I started of watching this movie without any 'hype'. I knew it was a good film since it claimed the #1 spot in the IMDb top 250 movies.But after the credits rolled down,i very well understood why it claimed the #1 spot. This is a gem of a movie. If you missed it, then go watch it. It doesn't have speedy car chases,gripping war sequences or thumping action. But it conveys a strong & warm story to the viewers holding them close. I cant stress more. This is a 'must watch before you die' movie. or you'll cry in the heaven,having missed out this masterpiece... Morgan freeman & Tim Robbins are outstanding. They make the movie unforgettable with their outstanding performance.Each & everyone contribute their best in this movie.The background score is also superb,although it is less. I give it 9.5/10
I've seen this with my grandparents countless times (mostly because when it's on TV, they don't even budge to change the channel, which I never minded) & even to this day, I still enjoy it. It's not THE GREATEST FILM I EVER SEEN/SAW but it's so good and every time I watch it, I still cry. It's this film and The Green Mile that enjoy

Morgan Freeman aka God Tim Robbins aka Susan Sarandon's ex bar give great, fantastic performances.

Sorry this review is short or unworthy to be read, but I can't really explain my review without gushing over it, but I recommend it to anyone willing to watch
This is a great example of how a great movie should look like. A very good story, perfectly played characters. My favourite movie of all time.
Robbins kills as does Freeman. Amazing supporting cast. Everything is flawless from the camera work to the editing. Some might say that the side stories and other occasional story slowdowns drain it a bit but in my opinion these elements really only serve to better the buildup for what is maybe the greatest ending of a film ever. The location the film was shot in is also perfect and really adds to just how fun this movie is to watch. I wouldn't dare to tempt anyone with spoilers but if you haven't seen this movie then you are really missing a huge moment. Not just in cinema history. But also in terms of appreciating life. And freedom.


A soul refreshing film, but the genre itself is. That doesn't put it above other genres, so I feel that the balance needs to be re-established in the ratings.9/10
I don't easily remember the names of actors of Hollywood movies, neither do I "ever" take the time off, writing comments on any movie, but for this movie i "have" to do it all.

The whole way of presenting this movie has been outstanding, i.e. from the beginning to the end. Great performances (Tim Robbins & Freeman Qualifying as one my favorite actors). The whole presentation has been very apt to the movie. But what is important is the strong message this movie transcends, i.e. of Hope, is truly recommendable.

This movie deserves an intent watch by "all". Do take you some time off to watch the movie,if not twice, be it once.
This film is so amazing. This is about a man called Andy who is found the guilty of the murder of his wife and her lover and sentenced to a prison. He struggles to get through hardship. He is so smart that he becomes an outstanding person. First of all, this film is narrated by the second lead character, Red, which makes the audiences see Andy from Red's view unconsciously. His smartness leads to an incredible ending. Each scenes are dropped advance hints, and in the end, each pieces are put together. His smartness blew me away. This film makes us think about what the life is. The last scene is incredibly beautiful. This film is definitely one of masterpieces.
A brilliant movie that carries a weightful massage & presented it perfect way possible.
The film shows the sinister circumstances of prisons in the US in former times. The plot tells of an unbreakable friendship that has grown for all these years behind bars. Hope dies last...
It is a movie that catches your attention from start to end. Besides the great storytelling, what I most love about this one is the great cast with strong performances and the fact that the main character is indeed intelligent. He is very smart along the movie, so clever most of us didnÂ´t see his plan coming. Every character in the film has a very defined personality and adds to the plot. The ending is great.
This movie is absolutely superb. You watch it and all the simple, unremarkable details just cumulate and you realise that this movie, by being unflashy and ordinary is telling a powerful story about hope and redemption. Andy seems to be the main character but it is Red who finds himself, who is redeemed.

The Shawshank Redemption was overlooked because it looked unremarkable. But this movie has to be seen. My friends are action movie fanatics but they were all stunned by this movie. Stephen King should be thanked for writing the novella and the director should be praised for bringing it to the screen in such fine form. Forget Forrest Gump, this was the Best Picture of 1994.
This Movie is just awesome, I am just speechless & thrilled watching this epic screenplay.

People watching this will also definitely love watching the Prison Break T. V Series too. Similar concept but gang based, you will love this ride as well.

But coming to movie , it just got this vibe like no other. Would love to see these type of intellectual movies more.
I have never commented on a film but living as movie lover, a great movie lover, I've always been seeking for finest fine movies, movies that can't be forgotten, that would give a meaning to me... The Shawshank Redemption, it is a movie that I can't say anything about it else than powerful, well-made and meaningful to me, as God as my witness, to this moment I haven't seen any movie better than that ... It was recommended by a dear friend of mine but I never took seriously until I watched the first thirty minutes of it, then I regretted that I've never attempted to watch it before that momentÂ… Hope, something good never dies, I have hope that I believe in, and I believe that someday that hope will get me through life... The Shawshank Redemption, gives hope and that's enough for a movie... I don't have that great knowledge of movie, but I do believe that this is one of the finest movies that were ever made...
OK, so I am a huge fan of Stephen King as well as of the cinema itself, and it took me almost 5 years to finally see The Shawshank Redemption. I think I was one of the few people on the planet who did not see this fantastic motion picture. Everything about this film exudes greatness, from the performances of Freeman and Robbins to the masterful screenplay, cinematography, cast and especially the direction. I agree with most people who fume over the fact that films such as this one (perfect in every sense) rarely, if ever garner an Oscar win. Its a shame that the big budget over - hyped (and often mediocre at best films) win all the awards while a gem like The Shawshank Redemption comes up empty. You never grow tired of watching this film and its introspective ending is just perfect. If you are one of the 4 remaining people who has yet to see this masterpiece, find 2 hours of quiet time and watch it. You will thank yourself afterwards.
What praises can I sing about this movie that haven't been sung already? However, what this movie DID do was surprise me. I don't know whether I should have expected the movie's ending or not, but all the same it did give me a bit of a shock. While some of the things have been seen before many times (the bible-thumping hypocritical warden, for one), I was pleased with some of the lines from the movie ("Trust in the Lord...your ass belongs to me."), and delighted with how the movie was wrapped up so neatly. See this movie not as an artsy, thematic flick, but see it as an excellent, expertly done story, and you will agree with me when I say it's one of the five best movies of our decade.
I am a great fan of Stephen King's books. But not his movies. The critics are right. That includes Roger Ebert. It includes Maitlin's Summary. It includes the Academy voters. If you like horror movies over classics then this is a must see.

But it is run-of-the-mill prison fare otherwise. Anyone remember Michael Caine? It is not that this isn't entertaining. It's just simply that this film doesn't belong in the top 250.
What a nice movie i watched. Highly recommend this movie for everybody.

This movie is a wake up call for everyone: so many life lessons, so many quotes that will remain forever in your mind. The acting is amazing, the story, the script, the music. Everything is just perfect 'Get busy living or get busy dying'
Shawshank Redemption, which now is praised highly for it's brilliance, wasn't a major hit when it was released. Over the years we have understood the subtle spots of life which the film hits on. As time passes this piece of art will grow bigger in its cultural influence and will keep shedding light on the real motive of cinema i.e to potray shades life as they are. A must watch for everyone!
Freedom may we all be free to let go of our complaints, hold on to our hopes, and persevere in our efforts to overcome our difficulties and achieve our own salvation.
Can I say anything more about this winner. . . Once seen, it totally speaks for itself and I shouldn't really have to say anything because when most people hear about it, they already have a pretty good idea of how incredible it is. This movie is so immaculate. My hat's off to the production company that has created not only the most inspiring film in ages, but one of the most emotionally significant films to date. The movie teaches things to us that we need to know - messages about love, perseverance, and brotherhood - and it does it with marvelous succinctness. By far, one of the greatest films I have ever seen - a masterpiece for today! Easily one of the most awesome movies I've ever seen in my life. The movie has a great message to it, the acting and filming were fantastic as well, wow!
I watched this movie with my classmates in high school and was shocked by it. Life is not complete without seeing it.
There are places in the world that aren't made out of stones .There is something inside that they can't get to ,that they can't touch .

It was a very beautiful and legendary movie. It is a masterpiece with the messages it gives, the acting and the script. Endless thanks to the producers for this legendary movie...
One of the greatest films of all time. It absolutely has aged like fine wine. Never gets old. There's not a whole lot of movies that are on par with the excellence of Shawshank Redemption.
The Shawshank Redemption is unbelievably well executed. It is filled with emotion, a gripping storyline, and likable (and unlikable) characters. The ending may bring you to tears. Everyone should watch this film to remind themselves of what a movie should aspire to be.
This I have to say was one of my favorite movies of all time. I didn't see it until 1998 though. I had heard about it, but never actually had seen it. But when I did, I went out and bought it on video. I've always liked Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins has become a favorite of mine too. For some reason I like prison movies. It's just the suspense that really gets me. Movies like Escape From Alcatraz, The Green Mile, Instinct, and The Last Castle are among my favorites. To anyone who has not yet seen this movie, go rent it tonight, you will not be disappointed!
Well it isnt a shock that his movie is rated as one of the best of all time.

The story is easy to catch up with, you just never want the movie to end, Morgan and Tim play their roles so incredibly good.

And as i said, Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbin's acting is unbelievable, same with Bob Gunton who plays the Warden.

The whole movie is just perfect. Everything. The music,characters,story.
The Shawshank Redemption is easily one of the best movies ever made.It is a simple yet powerful story that really touches your heart. The strength of this movie lies in the fact that the director does not use anything flashy to entice the viewers in this movie. The music by Thomas Newman adds depth and character to the movie and certainly enhances the overall appeal of the movie. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman prove that good acting trumps over everything else. Frank Darabont also deserves a lot of credit for his direction. It does not feel that this is his first movie. The cinematography of this movie is also excellent and Roger Deakins has done a wonderful job. The biggest strength of this movie is that it tells us to be brave in adverse times and not lose hope even in bad times. We can learn a valuable lesson from this movie and also realize the value of patience. Anyone who has seen this movie will agree with me and most of the people will love to see The Shawshank Redemption again.
I have seen this movie about 6 times and I get stunned every time. Now has past one year since I last saw her, so it got me thinking; what is so good about this film? is'it the story? the director? the actors? or maybe just all of this things?. I mean what makes this the best movie ever made?? Is'it the feel-good feeling in the end? I don't know a person whose does't feel good after this movie. Tim's and Morgans's performances both deserved Oscar, but I'm not gonna take'it from Tom Hank's that his performance in Forres Gump also deserved Oscar. So if anyone can tell me the ONE thing that make's this the best movie ever made.
"The Shawshank Redemption", like "Lord of the Rings", is an exemplary film. There is absolutely nothing wrong with it. The actors all do a fine job, from Morgan Freeman to Tim Robbins. The plot is outstanding, probably because it used one of Stephen King's best novels as a screenwrite. And the setting, well what can you say? Shows prison from a whole new standpoint. As of now, this film is tied with "Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring" for the best movie I have ever had the pleasure of viewing.

Good stuff shawshank very emotional watch like a look
I saw this movie in 2019, because it was #1 in IMDB. It was nice movie, but I have seen many films like this, nothing extraordinary. I cannot understand its ranking.
This movie was far ahead of its time. It had the best picture, soundtrack, brilliant acting, decriptive characters, masterful storyline as in example illustrated the ideal prison life to the bone, and was first of its kind to come out with a unbelivable(shocking) ending. If you haven't watched this movie yet, you are depriving your eyes from the "amazing" it craves. The ending is so beautiful, one can't dare to imagine.
The man teach us a very simple lesson on having hope, through his actions, through his honesty and determination towards what he believes!!
The best film I've ever watched, if you haven't watched this film, not only do I pity you, I also resent you. This movie is a masterpiece. this movie is the best. This is one of the very few films that I will call perfect,The greatest and best end of a movie in history,I consider it the best movie ever
This movie is truly amazing. The cast is brilliant. all the actors are acted very well and they are very talented. well directed masterpiece work. This movie is realistic. The escape plan from the prison is great.
There are only a few words I have to say: Every time I watch that film, I have to cry. There are not many films, which get this result. Must have something to do with the direction of Frank Darabont. And the acting of the stars is just brilliant. As a matter of fact, I don't see Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins playing just another role. I only see two Persons: Andy and Red For a long time I had the problem that when I saw Tim Robbins in another movie I thought of Andy Dufresne But now I will write something about the story: Of course I have read the original story written by Stephen King. It was, in a way different. It has not that deep meaning that is perceptible in the movie. When I think about this friendship between the two men... The sentence "Get busy livin or get busy dyin", well in a way it shaped my whole live. This is definitely the best film I have ever seen
When thinking of how to vote/rate a film such as The Shawshank Redemption, I can only think, "What didn't I like?" Honestly, there's nothing in this movie I can think of to make it better. Great story, great characters, great actors and great scenes.

Stephen King is an amazing story teller. Luckily, Frank Darabont has the ability to translate it into film.

When it's on TBS or USA, I always find myself finishing the movie whether it's just started or has 15 minutes left. I'd like to think of myself as a person with enough films under my belt to recognize an amazing piece when they cross my path. This on the other hand crossed my path, sat down, and entertained me.
In the last 22 years, have seen this movie more than 30 times from start to end, but lost count of climax scene viewings.

Don't have to give away spoilers, but certainly can quote; "Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies." And so is this movie, a real classic.
Best drama ever. I've got many favorite movies, and I've always been unable to name my all times favorite movie, since my moods change, sometimes I want comedy, sometimes action, and sometimes, drama. One thing I am sure of tho, and that's the superiority of The Shawshank Redemption amongst it's genre. It may not be completely realistic, it may have a few cliches, but I don't see why some people seem to think that an utterly entertaining and well made movie suddenly isn't just that anymore if it has a few silly things in it.

For the last 12 or so years I've watched movies like a true fanatic, thousands and thousands of them, and I've pretty much seen all the ones that count. Everyone has a right to opinions, but I'm telling that you truly do think that this movie doesn't _deserve_ it's place in the top 5 of IMDB, you are clueless.
This movie was very entertaining. The acting of morgan freeman and tim robbins, were exceptional, as well as the other actors. Even though very violent, it's extremely entertaining. The script was very good, and had some humorous lines, which were hard to notice. This movie is one of the best ever, and should have one for best picture, best actor and best director. One of Stephan Kings best novels, to become a classic motion picture.

Wonderful, wonderful movie, one of the greatest stories ever told. Terrific acting, and some of the best dialogue that I have ever heard before in a movie. Brillant screenplay and excellent directing. Why didn't this movie win Best Picture?
Wow, what can I say. This film just blew me away entirely. I was never much of a Tim Robbins fan, but now I want to see everything he's in. He carries off his role in this movie with this wonderful quiet dignity and patience. I recommend this film very highly.

An extraordinary testament to the power of hope. In my view, the most perfectly scripted and acted movie ever made.

The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that travels full circle from guilt to retribution to redemption. In the end, the insolent and obtuse pay the ultimate price for their arrogance.
Probably the best movie ever made... Motivational... Quotes are simply amazing...
There's nothing really to add to the 8644 other reviews. I've seen Shawshank at least 15 times. After 15 years I've just re-watched it again. It is timeless, still heart-breaking and uplifting at the same time, and still a very good reminder not to give hope up. And to like geology :)
Fear Can Hold You Prisoner, Hope Can Set You Free.Hope is a good thing, and maybe the best thing of all.

In the whole movie, the two best actors reflected the dark background of a prison at that time and their yearning for a new life and freedom to the audience through the language communication between them, which was really touching. The story is coherent and full, making people want to see the first time also want to see the second time. Worth watching!
Man's life is just going from one cave to another. And then continuing to shiver in the rain of that world.

Gospel song and praises still remains one of the best Medium of communicating with God. No doubt, you will leave to enjoy all the good musics and song been uploaded to Musicbasin,
The film touches on the eternal themes of mankind and the unavoidable predicament of the present. The structure of the film is better than the original novel, the lines are more rhythmical, more refined and more profound than the original novel, and the characters are more vivid and powerful than the original novel. With rich and skillful artistic texts, the director will promote the spirit of freedom between heaven and earth.

This film is one of the best in the movie history.

Shawshank is Masterpiece. The Music acting script story and message are top notch. The only movie that comes close to this one is WALK HARD - The Dewey cox story. Forrest Gump won best picture over Shawshank this year, and that may be my 3rd favorite movie after WALK HARD. But shawshank feels like real life and Forrest Gump's story is almost all impossible and Rediculous. To make a movie and wonder if it's a true story is alot harder to do than make some mumbo jumbo that would never happen.

Shawshank #1 greatest of all time

WALK HARD - dewey cox #2 best of all time

#3 Forrest Gump.
The Shawshank Redemption is, by far, one of the greatest films of the 90's, if not of all time. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are perfect as the two leads in this very moving, human story. With excellent direction (Frank Darabont), a fantastic story (a short by Stephen King), and a great supporting cast, this film is a masterpiece.
I have never ever felt the feelings i felt watching the masterpiece of a movie, its really manages to play hard on the watchers emotions, I think I was feeling happy , then sad then angry and in the end a sense of justice...

This film is probably the best film I have ever seen/felt it does the job 10-10
Though the prison system in the US may have changed by now under extreme "political correctness", but still "seeing" is believing. Twenty years are a long time, and the odds are against any one that plots an escape: the longer the time, the less believable an escape is. Perhaps the too neatly arranged escape hurt this movie's credibility, still the movie succeeded in being an entertaining window into a morbid world which may be too dark for the outside to see. If I agree with one thing in this movie, it is "Never give up hope", as Andy states it.
Its understandable, I guess, to dislike this movie, but how can anyone truly hate this movie. There is nothing to hate. Anyways, did anyone notice in this movie that the warden aged a little, but the captain of the guards(played by Clancy Brown) did not. The story started in 1947 and ended in 1966. Did anyone notice this?

10/10
Nice Movie. Love it and its awesome. I give 9 stars for this movie because it touched my heart.
I'm a big fan of movies that have depth and tells a great story. American movies doesn't always provide that.

The Shawshank Redemption, however, is a prime example of what American story telling can be.

With a slight non-linear build up, strong and patient character development, the movie drags you more and more into the despair of Andy Dufresne, but always with a sense of hope.

For me, there's no two ways about it. This is simply the best movie ever made.

10/10.
This is surely in top 10 of the movies I've watched. I find almost unbelievable how people can put themselves together in jail and be even more productive than outside the jail, opposite of the expectations. This topic is really interesting, when people are left with nothing but communication with each other and it makes them stronger and give them hope to live the next day. Hope is good, as Andy would say... Filled with phrases to remember, it strongly contributes to the quality and impression of the movie. Robbins and Freeman fantastic, as always. I'm not surprised this is on top of IMDb ranking list, it's a masterpiece. I wouldn't feel sorry watching it several times, it's totally worth it.
Feel good movie, that whilst harrowing, is a deeply rewarding watch. I do not subscribee to the Jesus/religious theories that I have seen bandied about. For me it is just a love stroy (bromance) between Red and Tim Robbins. A true analysis of how someone can be so compassionate, whilst having everything taken from them.
This is how to make a movie. Excellent pacing, excellent acting and directing. Worth the entire run time.
Currently this is the top rated movie on IMDb Top 250 -- and has been for many years -- and the reason is that this story can relate to everyone. That's not to say that, like Andy Dufresne, everyone was literally in prison, no, but in a quietly profound way it addresses a fundamental aspect of the human condition that everyone can relate to. Whether it's a housewife who's lived the same day for twenty years, or her workaholic husband who's also lived the same life for twenty years, it seems many people, judging by popularity of the film, consciously or unconsciously see this film as a metaphor for their own lives. Freedom is the issue here. Freedom from monotony, from despair, from death. Freedom to build boats or listen to Mozart or feel the sting of rain on your skin. What Andy Dufresne wanted was what we all want in our quiet moments, perhaps in the evening while we lie in bed, or in the rare instances when we have nothing to do and nothing to distract us. Andy Dufresne is us, magnified. The Shawshank Redemption is a great movie and that's what great movies do: they provide a mirror in which we can see ourselves.

Most amazing movie i have ever seen No words to describe Amazing
The suspense and surprise make this movie a Hollywood legend. It is awesome, the last 30 minutes are unbelievable. You can't catch what's coming. The acting performance by Morgan Freeman and his costars are incredible. This is a masterpiece.
The reason I'd give this movie 10/10 is because of this brilliant character, Dufresne, who is a quiet and deep thinker. His pondering, resonating silence is felt through the film through Tim Robbins' amazing talent, and the viewer falls in love with him almost at once. The beautiful, well drawn out character is one of my strongest fictional role models.
I didn't have a single moment of boredom while watching this movie.When I think about this movie I wonder why.
I gave this film a 7 over all. I think it was very well filmed and acted, but perhaps that's my problem with it - there's the 'feeling' that you're watching something 'significant' but the aura it seems to generate seems out of line with the proportion and events of the story. But, then that's the magic of cinema, and it _did_ pull the wool over people's eyes (therefore the 9's and 10's in the poll).

I was especially impressed as I'm not a King fan (either on paper or any film/miniseries adaptations i've seen) and wasn't expecting much from this, but the narrative and characterisation are fairly strong (again, if out if sync with the film's "feel")
I didnÂ´t expect much from this film before I saw it. It had OK stars, the plot sounded pretty familiar and it was originally a Stephen King story. Once I started watching it I thought: "Hey! This is pretty good!". And it got better as it went along. The story was was a perfect mix of high drama and "feelgood" quality. It didnÂ´t matter it was long and the story went along slowly. It was all build-up for the amazing ending which caught me by surprise. Somehow the film has a sense of being more than it seems at first, itÂ´s really an epic story of one manÂ´s determination against the system (or even his given destiny!). If youÂ´ve never seen this film, go see it -you wonÂ´t be disappointed!

Movie starts with a murder and everything goes normally, the dialogues and the feel of this movie are too diplomatic and at the end its like a parabola,everything reverses .

So far, no one's favorite movie! Plot and acting are all meant to be awesome! Insurmountable classic in the classic!

I think that says what I think about the movie pretty clear.
Isn't obvious that you definitely should watch this one?
There are so many movies in this world, there are those long epics like Gone With the Wind, there are those complicated stunning visuals like Inception, but of all the movies of all kinds the best is the simplest, pure film, The Shawshank Redemption is proof that the film doesn't have to have a four-hour runntime, it doesn't have to have a long and epic battle scene, it doesn't have to have a big budget, it doesn't have to have a big gross, he doesn't have to win an Oscar or have to be too complicated to be the best. Somewhere the best rated films are Citizen Kane, The Wizard of Oz, Mean Streets, etc. But I don't think there's really any doubt which one is the best. This film is a wonderful story about hope and friendship in the worst parts of life, about the harms of prison on the further continuation of life and really some people should not be imprisoned.

For this movie rating is 20/10!
first thing this film was amazing because it all about prison and life within then i don't know why Oscar miss this film and amazing acting of Morgan Freeman it will be the best film that i ever seen i wish all people around world see this film enjoy>>>>first thing this film was amazing because it all about prison and life within then i don't know why Oscar miss this film and amazing acting of Morgan Freeman it will be the best film that i ever seen i wish all people around world see this film enjoy first thing this film was amazing because it all about prison and life within then i don't know why Oscar miss this film and amazing acting of Morgan Freeman it will be the best film that i ever seen i wish all people around world see this film enjoy
Simply one of the most intelligent and most enjoyable films ever made. Genius frank darabont utilises Stephen king's masterwork perfectly. Couldn't be praised any more really. All is great, from emotional performances by robbins and freeman, to storytelling qualities and the ability to retain fans interest.

Must watch experience!
A movie about hope. Where with the right effort and mind we can all have it. Even in a world where hope seems no where to be found.
This movie depicts yes there is still "Good" present in this materialistic world. An incredible tale of Friendship/struggle/desprair and ultimately Achieving your goal.

It's an escape film without action, thrills or suspense, even though we're aware that he's digging off screen. It's more of a collective story than memorable moments. The characters are good and the performances solid, though not demanding as a lot of it's in the narration. Only the Brooks part's really evoking and perhaps the bit playing the record, as the tone's that of a harsh setting. The inner worry and satisfaction Andy must feel as the warden and guard are in his cell next to the poster, gives more weight to the record scene as all that work could've been for nothing if they took away everything. Though knowing they didn't find out perhaps kept his sanity while in isolation.

One of the finest movies that I have ever seen. It's a must watch.
Best prison movie since The Great Escape. One of the most satisfying climaxes of any movie ever made. Morgan Freeman should have won the Oscar for best actor. Relative unknown Bob Gunton (one of those actors you see, but you never know his name) is also brilliantly despicable as Warden Samuel Norton. Like many classics, despite its modest box office appeal, Shawshank will grow in stature through the years and will be recognized as an all time great.

First of all: this film is one of the "must see".

It's not just a collection of perfect moments. It's not just a work of good teammates. It's a single moment from the start till the begining when you live along with the characters of the film.

And the last but not the least: it very hard to make film after strong book. Different seasons is worth reading and definitely very impressive. When I watched the start I honestly doubted that it will impress me that strong.
Awesome Movie. Great performances by the whole acting cast especially Freeman and Robbins. I thought the warden was an excellent played character also. The screenwriting was awesome. Too bad this movie was out the same time as Forrest Gump or perhaps it would of had way more accolades. Still one of the greatest movies ever.
This movie will go down as one of the greats. A work of art in it's genre.
I can watch this movie over and over.. Great work!!
Frank Darabont has created a good film about the misuse of criminal justice system and the obnoxious corruption in prisons. He has done this by showing an insider's view of a penitentiary from the perspective of its inmates. Although Tim Robbins has a good role in this film as Andy,he is surpassed by Red played by Morgan Freeman. He is at the summit of his acting prowess as everything is written on his face. There is no other actor in Hollywood or elsewhere who could have done this role of Red with absolute conviction as Morgan Freeman. Shawshank Redeption tells us in clear terms that in prisons it is the rule of everyman for himself but sometimes there are exceptions. Feelings of suffering,sadness,trust,joy,companionship occur which give the prisoners the hope to carry on. It is nice that there is not much focus on feminine characters as they did not have anything that could have justified their presence.
Superb acting and brilliant performances from Tim Robbins (Mystic River) and Morgan Freeman (Million Dollar Baby), who play as inmates, Tim Robbins playing a man framed for the murder of his wife and the man who she had an affair with. The two inmates develop a friendship over the twenty odd years spent in the prison.

This movie portrays an ugly, though bearable life in prison through the 40s, 50s, and 60s.

It's a strong piece on how far one will go to redeem himself, even if those things that must be redeemed are not by any means loathsome. See it if you haven't.
This movies is a masterpiece. 10/10 will watch again.
Such a great movie. So many great characters and I love the bond between Red and Andy. Shows the trials and tribulations inmates face. And the twist towards the end is amazing. Excellent movie!
I'm not giving a low rating because I'm against whats popular. Shawshank Redemption is a great film, its actually one my favorites. The characters are portrayed very well, except for Andy. I know he is supposed to be an emotionless socially awkward guy who only has one facial expression. In that case he played his role perfectly but I don't think its a wise choice to have a... main? Character like that? I'm not sure if Red was the main character, he is our eyes and ears so...

Either way the film shows cinematic genius and truly amazing story telling. I enjoyed every second of it, some say certain areas of the story dragged on too long but hey its prison. Every moment in prison is dragged along. But I don't know about being the greatest film on IMDb. I would say Citizen Kane should be number 1. Citizen Kane is so amazing its actually art. So again loved Shawshank Redemption and I wish more movies were like it, but I don't know about greatest film of all time.
I love this movie for many reasons. The acting doesn't get any better. One gets easily pulled into the stories and characters with no hesitation. When a story can effortlessly make you care about the situations and troubles it presents, it deserves praise. This movie may not have a revolutionary plot, but it it still everything a good movie should be. One may think the ending is too "touchy feely" but i think it adds to the overall appeal ,remember it's not called the "Shawshank Damnation". See it and enjoy and remember, it's OK to to cry over happy things too!

Final Analysis: I will watch this movie many more times before I die
A very good description about a realistic film. Long will be in the first place
Yeah, so it's a nice story (eventually) but it takes a long time getting there. Unbearably depressing for most of the movie.

This movie well deserves to be the most top rated movie in the history of cinema. Everything about this movie is top-notch. Acting, script, music, etc.

It just saddens me that nowadays we don't see movies of this quality anymore.


Just two words for this movie - Simply Awesome.

This is the best movie ever made.
awful. a dreadful disgrace. the film is the most cliched in cinematic history and is worthy of no respect. even worse is how it is so flawless yet it still is of no quality. i do not know how this film can be revered over others such as psycho, apocalypse now, raging bull, easy rider, the godfather, the killing fields, some like it hot and casablanca amongst others. shockingly horrendous
It keeps you engaging throughout, it is a very emotional and old story, heartfelt story.
This is simply the definitive American film about the endurance of the human spirit.A wrongly convicted man spends twenty years in a brutal prison, never losing his hope for freedom. A beautifully written and directed film by frank Darabont.A true representation of what the art of film can be elevated to. One of the greatest films ever made.
An outstanding story ,with fantastic cast that is truly make this viewing experience unforgetable.
This masterpiece belongs in the company of The Godfather, and other films often mentioned reverently as the best of all time. I am not going to compare this film to the other finest made, as that is often difficult to do, how does one quantify what is the best, without shortchanging other films. Simply put, this is a timeless story, which encompasses the best elements of all films, suspense, horror, comedy, tragedy, and puts them together in a seamless tapestry, as rich and colorful as life itself. Superlatives fail to illustrate the quality of this work, as complete and satisfying a film that has ever been made.
The story is excellent and the actors all perform well. Never a boring scene. Good drama. Some scenes are even funny ! The plot is superb. I thought Stephen King only wrote horror-stories, but I guess I was wrong !

If you see this movie on video, sit down and watch it all and LISTEN ! You have to pay attention! And then you'll love it !
I donÂ´t like movies about "way of life" or about a hope. In this movie is handled a problem with "normal life" or with resolution to take a life to "own hands". A topic of this film is such like Papillon. This is not an authentic subject, this is not an authentic movie....

i really dont have any more to say - except read the other reviews - they really say it for me. In other words - this is one of the greatest movies of all time. This is an absolute masterpiece and it will be definitely a film that i will gladly show to my grandchildren in the mid-21st century - IT'S THAT GOOD... watch it and learn.....
This one is a winner. It was a sad movie... and unacceptable for young kids to watch but a real good movie.... I am a big fan of the two main actors.. Tim Robbins,, and Morgan Freeman. Does anyone know if this movie was based on a true story?

What a wonderful ending also... and as I said before in other comments, I love happy endings.

Excellent must see movie about surging life behind bars battling whether it's the guards, prison mates, and/or even the warden with plenty of plot twists and narrated by one of the most well known voices, Morgan Freeman.
A good film without love, without special effects. The film tells a very pure story, a redemption, a return to freedom, and a belief that drives him to do so. This film is touching, it also makes many people grow up.

One of, if not the best movie ever made. A classic that will last forever. If you have not yet seen this movie, do yourself a favor and BUY it, don't rent it. This is a movie you should own. I'm not a person who only likes certain genres of film. I watch all kinds of different films and this is at the top.
The definition of a classic movie. The story is great and the acting as well. I've watched it so many times I can quote the whole thing.

I've heard alot of people say this movie is overrated, but none of them seem to remember to give a comparison. If this movie is undeserving of its status as one of the best movies ever, then what movie is better? I'd really like someone to supply an alternative so I could rip their choice apart and show them exactly why it's not as good.
Excellent stars and supporting actors make this a once-in-a-lifetime type movie. The script was so well written it made it seem as if everyone was actually inmates in Shawshank. Every time the movie comes on tv I watch it and at the end STILL cry of happiness. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are outstanding together!
My friend and I have agreed that any man between the ages of 20-40 will have one or more of the following as being in their top 3 movies of all time : Star Wars, Blade Runner, Pulp Fiction and The Shawshank Redemption.

A fantastic source novella, skilful direction, career performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman....the list goes on.

The plot can't be summarised easily - suffice to say that there are no car chases, no gunfights, and no actors from Dawson's Creek.

This movie is one of only three I can recall where I specifically noticed EVERY person leaving the cinema with a HUGE smile on their face.
This movie will change your life. A must see in 2020 to start out your next decade resolutions.

When you watching this movie you need that the keep your mind claim and relex yourself . And at the end movie teaches you that your plans never fail when you execute your plans with your 150% of ðŸ’¯% that make you success in your life and your dreams come true.
If it isn't perfection, it is the closest any movie has ever come.
A truly great film. Probably the best prison movie ever made. Even thought it's the only prison movie I've ever seen. Anyway, I think this movie deserves the rating it has on IMDB. Now to get Saving Private Ryan's rating up there. Okay I'll stay on topic. Morgan Freeman is at his very best in this movie playing the "man who can get stuff for you" or Red. Tim Robbins was also great as Andy Dufrense. Not only was the acting great, but so was the story. The message here was one that I will never forget. But I won't tell you what it is, you'll just have to watch the movie. 10/10. As I always say to all my favorite movies, great job.
I Don't know how many times i have watched this movie and i know i will definitely watch it again,but this movie always inspire me whenever i lost my hope and got imprisoned by fear of failure and wrongdoings,it helps to conquer this premise.

i often thrown in to oblivion,whenever i have no idea about what to do, the one quote made me busy with my life is "Get busy living or Get busy dying". In fact,quotes from the movie stick to my desktop which could not be removed even by myself.

Furthermore,the climax of the movie made me shocked as well as concluded the bottom line "Hope is a Good Thing" which i still follow and forever.
movie must watch shows how a man can survive in situation that is not in his favor. character in movie are well played and all those played it well it is ever green movie u may watch it right now still love it. it was recommended to me by friend i recommend you to watch it too good lesson in movie
The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul. Shawshank Redemption was my favorite movie when I first saw it, and I only realized its weakness later, this movie will look a lot worst the second time you watch it with its mysteries revealed and questions fully answered because one of the great qualities of this movie is its impossibility to guess which direction the story will take until it reaches the end. However, the movie celebrates the determination of the human spirit "There's something inside you that they can't get to, that they can't touch. It's yours.

This is a great movie. The entire movie is filled with life changing themes that reveal how important integrity, friendship and hope is in this world. One person with a big heart can make such a difference. For being a simple drama without any real action, romance, or special effects, Shawshank Redemption does a phenomenal job of drawing in the viewer and creating intense scenes at every turn. The characters are vivid and easy to relate to. When so many movies today revolve around computer generated graphics, explosions, fight scenes, and sex, it is refreshing to watch a movie that reminds us all of what life is really about. Life sucks sometimes, but Andy looks past his circumstances in order to better the world he was forced into. The friendships he makes and the way in which Andy brightens up the world around him is inspirational.
This movie reminds us how powerful hope is. "Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies."
When I watch this movie, I am thinking of my life and the reason why we live. Wonderful.
One of the finest films ever made, it has a storyline based on the power of friendship. The film is about Two imprisoned men and how they bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency. It is a beautifully made film and credit should be given to director and writer Frank Darabont. The acting masterclass of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins helps create a heart-wrenching friendship as Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) struggles to cope in Shawshank Prison as he has been wrongly accused for his wife's murder. In steps "Red" (Morgan Freeman) a man who knows how to get things who befriends Andy and learns about his story. This is one of my all-time favourites and rightly so. It is one that everyone should watch, a film where grit and determination, mixed with true friendship, always helps you prevail in the most difficult of situations.
A really engaging film. It got better and better towards the ending. What a great ending monologue. Hope hope.
A enjoyable movie, a dying trend in the 21st century, almost impossible to expect something of this caliber in today's world since hollywood's propaganda agenda overshadows majority movie projects.
Top 250 material - YES #1 movie of all time - not a chance in Hell.

I saw this movie when I was like 14 or 15 and thought it was the greatest film ever made. Great acting, great story, great subplots, best Stephen King adaptation ever, Morgan Freeman.

The things that bother me most now are the one-dimensional characters of the warden and guards. If we could see what turned them from human beings into what they are now, that would have been helpful to the emotional atmosphere of the film. The warden was definitely one of the central characters and I didn't quite get a sense of who he was.

Still a fantastic film, but I can think of 100 better ones.
What a great movie, written by: Stephen King. Original title: Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption. This movie has got 7 oscar nominations, but didn't get 1. I don't know why, because this was one of the best movies in 1994.

It's about a man Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is guilty on a double murder of his wife and her boyfriend.

In this whole movie you find out about his life and if he's guilty or not. Great acting by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. (10/10)
This movie is one of the best I've ever seen, and it deserved all the Academy Awards it received. The only other movie that has made me experience so many different emotions during it's running time, has to have been "Forrest Gump". Because "The Shawshank Redemption" made me smile, it brought tears to my eyes, it made me laugh, and it made me curse at the injustice that takes place. And the acting-chemistry between Robbins and Freeman is nothing but excellent. Yep, this movie is great, and nothing but great! If you haven't seen it, you definetly should! And IF you HAVE seen it, you probably agree that it's a wonderful movie!
How can someone not love this movie? Not only does Stephan King create the best plot and story line, but the actors such as Tim give the effect to make it a great. The story is perfect , its also honest. Morgan and Tim made the best pair of cons. And Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown made the best "bad" enforcement duo.

Complete 10/10 and a great movie for any collection.Although if something like a guy getting his head beat in by a night stick or some guy crawling through a sewage pipe up to his chin in crap , if stuff like that makes you a little sick , Id suggest pop a gravol and tuff it out princess its not that bad.
This film ranks as one of my top 10 films of all time .

Superb performances by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins , they cast this film wonderfully , From the crafty warden , to the prison guards , to all the inmates , And what a terrific ending to a superb film .

This film was nominated for Best Picture but lost to Forrest Gump , had it not been for Gump , this film would have surely won Best Picture.

I have watched this film 20 or so times and never get tired of it , No question it is the best Prison Film ever made ( Escape from Alcatraz close second ).
I remember wanting to see this movie because I saw the promotional shot of Robbins standing in the rain; I thought it was a beautiful scene. It is a minor scene in the movie.

This movie is, for lack of a better word, perfect. Every moment holds meaning, every performance is dead on. I have watched it more times than I can count, and it always seems new and wonderful to me. More than any movie I have seen, it brings real emotions to the audience and brings comfort to the hopeless.

Sometimes I think a great work of art is one that brings change to the audience. This movie is transforming.
Best movie ever !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
7917 reviews and you are here reading this one. I will start with this one thing : this movie is much more than a must-watch, and you should stop everything that you are doing and watch it right now.Words are hard to find in order to describe it, so go watch the movie and see for yourself what reaction you will have.

The level of the plot is clear, stable and smooth, the actors are full and three-dimensional, and any line can become a constant word. People with dreams have their own halo and always keep a distance from the chaotic world. At the same time, they are clear-minded, uncompromising, confident, and always have longings and hopes for a better future. Every time you read a classic, it is a process of soul purification. It is like a sweet wine with a mellow entrance and a long aftertaste.
Top-notch performances, exceptional cinematography.Powerful, poignant, thought-provoking.

At that time, it was rare to be framed in prison to have faith and stay awake, because day-to-day work in prison really destroyed people's hopes. But the man is the one who is awake, and he redeems himself and others, Let other people's world t also more excellent color.

For a movie shot entirely in prison where there is no hope at all, shawshank redemption's main massage and purpose is to remind us of hope, that even in the darkest places hope exists, and only needs someone to find it. Combine this message with a brilliant screenplay, lovely characters and Martin freeman, and you get a movie that can teach you a lesson everytime you watch it. An all time Classic!!!
Many people ask the fatidic question: why does this movie is ranked second best movie of all time??? But I believe that most of them have miss the point: we don't love movie because its `cool' or because one is more `intellectual' or anything else; no, we love movie when they leave to us a powerful message. So yes, this movie is quit simple, the plot is basic, the actors are ok, but not exceptional but the image that stay in your mind at the end is a message of hope, it shows you that sometimes, in our life, our beliefs are more important than anything else; that we must choose the deepest way to succeed in what we expect to shine, because hope is the last thing to die.

10/10
one of the films that you must watch in lifetime. A film about long-term imprisonment that takes its time to convey what the slow crawl of a lifer's existence might feel like. Thoroughly gripping, and pretty refreshing. Ten years ago The Shawshank Redemption was a low-key prison film that didn't recoup its costs. Slowly it has become one of the most popular movies of all time - and, for some, it has even been life- changing. It is a strange comment to make about a film set inside a prison, but "The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm hold on our feelings because it makes us a member of a family. Many movies offer us vicarious experiences and quick, superficial emotions. "Shawshank" slows down and looks. It uses the narrator's calm, observant voice to include us in the story of men who have formed a community behind bars. It is deeper than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on friendship and hope.
Legendary film with very interesting redemption + power of friendship.

I've seen the shawshank redemption upwards of 10 times and never get tired of it. Tim robbins delivers his best preformance as well as morgan freeman. The two play prison inmates who become friends and devise a plan to escape. After that alot of sad things happen to them rape, beatings, solitary confinement, etc. Morgan Freemans character is released while Tim Robbins succesfully escapes after bringing down the corupt warden and head guard. The acting is superb as well as every other aspect in the film. I highly recomend this film to any avid movie buff like myself.

8/10
I have seen this movie now a couple of times and I can say that it is one the best movies ever made! It's not an ordinary movie, it's something special. Both Robbins and Freeman did an Outstanding role and that's one thing why I love this movie so much. This is timeless movie, one and only of a kind. This should be on everyones must see list! Superb..
This Movie is just as good as the Actors who perform in such a great Way. I felt like im in Shawshank myself, Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins made this Movie so amazing. The Story behind it is even more impressive.
It's the most impressing movie I've ever seen.I saw it coincidentally but was shocked very much by Tim and Morgan's acts.Especially at the end of the movie,I am aware of what is hope and how one can keep his mind alive.Is there anything more difficult for a single person to dig a hole through a wall in a jail within 19 years?We always consider it as one out of ten films that men have to see in his life(certainly it's on top).It's very pity that the Academy Reward neglected it,Tim should win all awards in 1994.Although few people have heard it before but if one is asked to see it ,he is surely very fond of it and thinks it is the best .I believe that Redemption will stay as long as I live on my mind.
This is my 1st review on IMDb , i don't like writing reviews for a movie after all it's just a movie.....you see a movie and you forget... 95% of the movies you see and you forget soon, well this movie really moves you and some of it remains with you ....gives you a great deal of idea how the real world is... each time you see it you feel light and get a feeling of satisfaction .... and more over if you like Morgan free-man you'll love of him after this one.... GREAT MOVIE... used to wonder why is it so highly rated.... well after seeing it.... i don't want to let the rating fall so i added mine and given it what it deserves...and i hope it remains at the top... i would like to thank the film maker and the production as a fan for a wonderful experience i got after seeing this movie :)
This film is excellent in all respects, in fact, this is one of the few films close to perfection starting from the actors, (The combination of Morgan Freeman (totally love him as an omniscient narrator who keeps us informed about the who's who) and Tim Robbins really give life to every scene visualized cleverly, the great script, based on the novel by Stephen King (the best novel of it, without doubt), the awesome soundtrack, excellent editing, everything fits perfectly. It has definitely the best narrative that leads to entertain and intrigue many times. What is so awesome about the story? It combines drama, comedy and thriller. The script is great, because it relates the stories of various characters during the whole film to reach a surprising ending, thus captivating the audience at all times. Anyway, Shawshank Redemption has it all. This film is one of those whose ending I failed to predict. The ending twist is really genius.


I just rewatched this brilliant movie thinking seeing it a second time it would lose its impact. I was wrong. I was just as touched and amazed by this movie. This movie has everything a great film needs. From great story with a beautiful ending and fascinating characters, to great performances by every actor, to beautiful music and stunning cinematography. I could go on for ages why this movie is amazing. It doesn't have a single weak link in my opinion. Does it deserve to be #1? Maybe not. But it is one of my all-time favourite movies, and I enjoyed every single second of it. I would definitely recommend this movie.

A truly magnificent film for any film fan. Its harsh reality of the criminal justice system in twentieth century America captivates your curiosity. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman two criminals convicted to remain in the confines of Shawshank for life. Both men emanate opposing ends of society, in that Tim is beaten savagely by prisoners learning that life in prison was bitter. Morgan Freeman recognises Tim's need to survive, striking up a friendship that eventually, with time, benefits other prisoners are left to rot. It's more than one man, but its the depiction of struggle and determination emanating from the film adaptation of Stephen King's story 'Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption'that anyone could be face in our lives.

A must see film that will change 160 minutes of your life.

There's not much to say about this movie. It's a cohesive, spectacular work of art. I don't know how long it takes for a movie of this quality and legacy to surface again, but I reckon it's going to take a while.
Watch it yourself and then you will be Speechless too
The greatest movie of all time.... absolutely brilliant
This movie stands out as one of the greatest of all times definitely. The story is highly captivating. Screenplay, cinematography are beyond beautiful. Perfection is the word for such a movie.
Love this movie. Great story, great actors, Shawshank Redemption has been in my top 5 favorite movies of all (my time), a long with The Green Mile. Never get tired of Shawshank.
Considering the time movie was shot, the acting, storyline and plot twists, this movie is a masterpiece.A must watch movie which will fulfill your expectations. Movie is 85% misery and 15% happiness. Dialogues are good. Background score hits at right place. Watch till the end.
This movie was amazing in so many ways. Rarely do movies based on books do the book justice, but the movie was inanely accurate. The casting was flawless and the actors could not have done better. I don't think the phrase "Brooks was here" will ever leave my subconscious. Every character has so much depth to offer the viewer, it is an amazing look at the human race. Certainly not a movie to take light-heartedly.
I've gone back and rewatched this film after everyone rated it so highly. But I still can't see what the appeal is. It goes on and on but nothing much happens. Watching it started to feel like a prison sentence. I certainly won't be going back in for a third stretch. I'm happy to accept that I'm right and you lot are all wrong. To all those giving it a perfect score, I say try watching more films.
When it comes to what really matters. This movies got it all. The cast of the two main characters is perfect. The whole cast makes a hell of a job. The music the story. This is my all time favorite movie.
Although a long film, and for the most part not light hearted, I am able to watch "The Shawshank Redemption" again and again and to this day I can't find fault with it. It was a brave film to make because if it hadn't been made and acted so well, some parts could have been very tacky. One thing I like about the film is the way in which it shows the convicts to be normal people who have made mistakes, not monsters. It emphasised how everybody deserves rights, even if they are in prison. It is an emotional rollercoaster for me making my heart break or swell with happiness. That sounds tacky, but it's not if you've seen the film.
I have read the short story (novella?) by Steven King and seen this great film and I have to say that this is one time when Hollywood did a better job then the author. I've seen tons of prison movies (some with good plots and others that are complete B movies) and this has to be the best one out there. Usually when I like a movie, I can watch it a bunch of times. And I have seen Shawshank many times, but none of the repeated viewings were as good as the first. Clancy Brown (he was great in Highlander too) once again steals the show as a Hard A--- prison guard who gets his just desserts in the end. Chances are you've already seen this, but if you haven't, I fully recommend you give it a chance.
To begin with, The story is pretty well cliched. Like most prison dramas hope and struggle seem to be the element that put the plot together. For once this is probably the one time that such a cliched plot actually worked. I have personally seen this movie over 20 times just to figure out how and why it works so well. First of all the story is deep and thought provoking. Morgan Freeman's voice over narrative lets you see it through his eyes (the movie is really about him). The acting is flawless the whole picture is shot as a true epic. This is one great film about friendship and hope that does not dwell to much on pathos and mindless sentimentality. A true modern day classic!
Don't get me wrong i think the movie is good. but it's not great i mean there were much better movies in 1994 "Ed Wood", "Heavenly Cratures", "Pulp Fiction", etc. i mean there is nothing special about this movie it's very conventional..... i give it *** 0ut of *****
This film is so beautiful and so touching I had problems seeing it without crying. Who knew Stephen King could write like this and the first film of Frank Darabont(later he directed The Green Mile)was to be one of the greatest films ever made. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are excellent in this movie and the way the story itself is told is pure genius.

It`s a brutal and violent film ,but still it`s the most beautiful and loving film I`ve ever seen. It`s a story about friendship and hope and the road to freedom.The greatest scene in the film is when Andy and his fellow-prisoners work at the roof,and Andy is nearly killed by captain Hadley, but ends up drinking beer in the morning sun with his friends "like free men".
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the top 10 American movies ever made. It is written by American's greatest and best selling author Steven King. The acting, directing, etc., in the movie is perfect. Tim Robbins plays the perfect character in the movie and Morgan Freeman gives another stunning performance.
The Shawshank Redemption is different from any other movie in one most obvious way...there is nothing wrong with it. Tim Robbins is fantastic as the reserved and to some extent mysterious Andy Dufresne, and Morgan Freeman's portrayal of 'Red' is just as good. Stephen King shows he is more than a horror guru by teaming up with Frank Darabont to produce one of the greatest movies of all time. There's humour, there's sadness, there's action, there's drama. This film has it all. 10/10. Shawshank is a fabulous tale and it is a shame that it won none of the Academy Awards it was nominated for. If you haven't experienced The Shawshank Redemption, stop what you doing, leave your house/office and go and either rent or buy this video. An absolute classic. The best. Darabont's work has been limited since this film but his last directing sensation was The Green Mile. Starring Tom Hanks, this too is a fabulous film and both feature in my Top 5 of all time. Watch them both.
Hard to believe that Tim Robbins could be so good in such a serious role. As usual, Freeman is fantastic and the supporting cast was effective. The only imperfection to this great film is that it runs about 15 minutes too long. Not to say that the last several scenes were unnecessary, but certainly dragged, after the climax of the film had been achieved. Nonetheless, a great movie with a brilliant twist.
A standard and appropriate movie but this film is boring and lacking any excitement ,the film process is very slow. Overall to me, it's a completely ordinary movie and with the expectation that I had this film (As one of the best film in the history of cinema) , it is far away . This film is much weaker than the one who wants to be named the best film of history!!!!
Ah! What a film it was. For me, it explained freedom most precisely. And yes, it will surely let you know that only a man behind the bars can explain the freedom in best way (Dufresne and Red in this movie). It just changed my views towards life.

It is the only movie I have seen twice in my life.




Human emotions are captured well and presented as a beautiful movie. Friendship between Andy and Redding in the worst environment blossom beautifully and slowly. Both Andy and Redding won our ðŸ’• through fantastic acting. When the innocent man detained wrongly by the system and how he responding back to the different situations and towards different people are portrayed very well. Scripts extraordinary. I have not seen any other movie at par with this movie so far.

The Shawshank Redemption is a brilliant, timeless story of a young man named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is convicted and imprisoned for the murder of his wife. While in prison, he befriends an older black man named Red (Morgan Freeman). This film masterpiece just takes you through the years Andy spends in prison, and the hope that human spirit can keep alive even in the most hopeless circumstances. Tim Robbins exhibits a quality in this film that is inexplicable but charming. You really fall in love with his character and I genuinly believe (Robbins) acting in this film is perhaps one of the most moving performances ever caught on film. This really pushed me to respect the cast and really open my eyes to their acting abilities. This truimphant tale will leave a bittersweet trail through your heart as it did mine. ****

Tim Robbins plays Andy, a young man framed for murder by an evil prison warden, who then gets Andy to juggle his crooked prison schemes and to do the wardens, and others, taxes for free. But Andy is an artist at heart, and despite the degradations of prison life, he fights the warden on behalf of his fellow prisoners, going so far as to broadcast opera to an entire compound of bemused uncomprehending criminal-types. But will he break out, leaving friends and carving hobbies behind? Obviously inspired by "Cool Hand Luke" with Robbins in the Newman role, Morgan Freeman as the George Kennedy top-con, and with the warden as the warden. Highly recommended.


Before seeing this movie i was not so profound of Hollywood movies.I prefer,like anyone else in the world to see movies in my own mother tongue.I didn't even know what the title was.I am happy that i was patient enough to check this movie.This movie by all means is philosophical and brilliant.Tim Robbins and Morgan freeman chemistry was just brilliant.screenplay was so good.I always say to my friends "movies,songs,dialogue that keep lingering in our mind" are the ones which we feel for it.I felt more than that after seeing this movie.I spoke about it to everyone as much as i could.If you are patient enough you will get to understand it better.I watched it a number of times still after the end of the movie i feel extremely confident every time.

I am disappointed that this particular movie didn't fetch a single Oscar.But as more people see this they will understood that good movie doesn't require any accolade.Truly a stunning movie! My favorite movie also.....10/10
This is an example of story telling at its very best.

If you experience this movie and not come away with thoughts about how you live your own life and how you may set things right even in a small way, then you are a rare person indeed.

The screenplay was Fantastic! There wasn't a single dull moment in the movie. Top-notch Performances from Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman paired with a riveting Background Score & Splendid Cinematography, made this movie the Masterpiece it is!

It is a movie that would be engraved in your heart once you finish watching it. The lessons it teaches us about life through its terrific dialogues are among the finest that Cinema has to offer. Shawshank Redemption is definitely among the Best Movies that I've watched in my life!
When I've seen this movie, I had just one movie with a 10-rating and didn't believe this could beat it (in my opinion). However, when the credits started, I knew why this is on the top: People have large expectations on "The Shawshank Redemption" and also their all-time favourite movies, but it seems it can touch nearly every person deeply. I really love this masterpiece from the beginning to the end, but I don't think it's perfect, the beginning is a little bit too violent and mostly I don't like erotic scenes (because it seems like the movie wants a cheap upgrade). This is just nitpicking and doesn't change the fantastic atmosphere, characters, soundtracks, story and all the deep messages behind it.

10/10
Of a lifetime worth forty years- I never saw a movie that impressed me like this. You may not call it a perfect story but this movie just moves your soul...no wonder..it is the highly rated movie in IMDb. Two reasons why I loved this movie. Firstly the silence of Tim Robbins and the euphoria around Morgan Freeman. The scene on the terrace where Tim Robbins proves his mettle is a reminder of our latent abilities. This movie also reminds of survival instincts in real life wherein we should not lose hope when it comes to making choices. Two other movies that I loved in this perspective were "Cast Away" and "Catch me if you can"!!! Not sure if they were all based on real life incidents but if you ever happen to live a life,make a movie,write a book... Do it this way!!! Amen!!!!
I don't care what anybody says about this movie, it is simply great. I watched it for the first time, on a bootleg screener copy, back in early 1995. I used to get the Academy screeners, and I'd be so excited that I was getting movies that were still in theaters, that I'd watch some I normally wouldn't. Shawshank was one of those. Not the type of movie I would rush to see, but my family had watched it, so I gave it a shot. I fell in love with this movie after the very first viewing. It's one of those rare movies that seems to get better, each and every time you watch it. When I see it on TV, which is quite often, I find that it's hard to turn the channel. It's such a human movie. Just about everyone can relate to something in this film. If you can't appreciate a film like this, I truly feel sorry for you. This is what film-making is all about.

With thousands of reviews already, the only thing I can add is that I'd always put off sitting down to watch this film. But after watching it, I really can't fathom why. The reviews and ratings obviously make this a great flick and the cast alone is enough to warrant a look for virtually everyone. Yet, I seem to have always found something else to watch instead and I'm kind of regretting doing so.

Long story short, if you've waited longer than me to check this out. Put the phone down and press play. You won't be disappointed.
JUST WOW. this is possibly the best film i have ever seen and the best cast. Its beautifully screen played thr the chemistry between the two is just amazing.

GO WATCH.
Best Of Best... Everyone in this film were so natural. I enjoyed every second of this movie..... Movie deals Humour,Tragedy, Hope, Friendship. #MustWatchMovie
Omg, i enjoyed every bit of this movie.... How precisely they have managed..... Everyone was So Naturally Acted.
Where to begin with the shawshank redemption, well first off it's my all time favourite movie and has been since the first time I saw it. The compelling story of friendship and redemption follows Andy Dufresne being sentenced to two life sentences for a crime he did not commit as he forms a beautiful friendship with Red, played by Morgan Freeman. The acting from the ensemble cast is extraordinary, With career defining performances from Robbins, Freeman, Gunton, brown and Sadler. The story is beautiful and always brings a tear of joy to my eye, mainly due to the incredible music composed by Thomas Newman. If you haven't watched the shawshank redemption, watch it. You will love it and "that's God's honest truth" overall a feel good masterpiece that is number 1 on IMDb's 250 greatest movies for good reason. Because it's the greatest film I have ever seen.
A good movie about hope that shows the persistence of a falsely accused man. Tim Robbins does a good job at Andy Dufresne, but I think that without Morgan Freeman as Red (Ellis Boyd Redding), this movie would not be the same. I read the book, novella, whatever you want to call it, and it was different for the better, and there are multiple inside jokes/references to the book. The imagination of Stephen King formed into a movie that is hard to find something as good. A great movie about Hope.
This is the best movie that I have ever seen! Shawshank spent unbelievable twenty years digging his way to the freedom which is pretty impressive. He took advantage of his special skills to gain the trust of warden and captain. I almost burst to cry when I saw he and his friends drinking most delicious beer on the roof with wind breezing softly. He could never be bent, even though his enemies kept attacking him. I really wished he could be free with the help of that boy. However, the warden would exploit him to death and wouldn't ever let Shawshank go free. If the truth was that Shawshank was innocent, then the warden would rewrite the truth to keep Shawshank around him and working. After all his efforts, I was very happy to see Shawshank had another beautiful and decent life!
Shawshank IS a very good film but it has too many clichÃ© characters and situations AND script holes that one can drive a truck through. Gee, this must be from a Stephen King story. Actually, it's from two of his short stories. With King its often quantity and not quality. Despite that, The Shawshank Redemption is worthwhile.

What this film does have is terrific performances from the entire cast and a sense that an honest man can remain honest, despite the worst of circumstances. The scenes with the great character actor James Whitmore, especially those of his trying to cope after his release, are very well done.

The last ten minutes is splendid and almost redeems the rest of the picture. It gives this film an 8 instead of a 6 in my scale.

The best movie ever made people think that the end makes it an incredible movie but it's not because of the end it is how Red and Andy build chemistry together it's one of the best movies about hope. This is my favourite film of all time and it should be everybody's favourite film I don't know how Forrest Gump won best picture over this nobody praises Forrest Gump anymore but people still praise the shawahank redemption because it's that good so yeah I would highly recommend this film you will not regret the it.
This is the greateast film of all time it should have won 7 Oscars not get nominated for 7 it will never be forgotten for years and years
When I read Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption from Lord King I thought, WOW that story has to be brought to the Big Screen. When Frank Darabond realized his Vision I couldn't believe my eyes. It was more than perfect. Everything about this flick is pure perfection. Love it and always will...

Being #1 on the list I expected a lot, and it kind falls short of 10/10 in my eyes. Its a great movie but i expected more.
Considering the fact that The Shawshank Redemption is #1 on IMDb, and also considering that it has been drooled upon by so many people over the years, I had high hopes. I've seen it a few times now, I first saw it when I was 13. No issues with the storytelling or character development, but just not as perfect as people say. Still a magnificent film!
The classic movie the cat in the hat (2004) is much better, cat very funny, this movie not
No need for comments.......it's just that good. From beginning till the end it's a true TRUE masterpiece.
This is one of my all time favourite films. As it is for loads of people. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give excellent performances, as well as the other cast members. The characters are also very likeable, thanks to said actors. Now this film has little to no action, but it doesn't need it, everything else in the film is just as interesting, so my mind doesn't wander. The film is emotional when it needs to be, it's funny when it needs to be and it's always entertaining.
There is not much to say about this movie. Shawshank has it all. Good characters, story, and acting. It is not my favorite movie, but is probably the greatest movie ever made. Watching this movie made me think what life is really like. I was moved by every minute of the movie and when it was done.... I almost thought it was real life.

Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are brilliant. You couldn't ask for anyone better for the part. Their acting in this movie made you cry and changed the turn for the movie industry.

This movie is worth every second, so don't miss "The Shawshank Redemption".
This ranks right up with my favorite movies of all time. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give excellent performances in this movie. It kind of annoys me that this movie won no award. It should have swept the Oscars and the Academy Awards. Still this movie should be seen again and again. It is one of those movies that just won't get tiring and maybe it might just attract fans in the new century. I give it a ten out of ten!

Trust me go see this movie!!!!
No matter how smart you are this movie will always be one step ahead of you. It depicts how the friendships should be. The movie will not disappoint you at all.
Nobody needs another review of how amazing this movie is but it needs to keep the top spot to encourage the younger audience to watch it someday. Morgan Freemans narration is so memorable that I can hear his voice in my head even though it has been more than 10 years since I watched it. I hear that beautiful music played around the prison like I'm listening to it right now. When I first saw it the tears streamed down my face at that part. You will understand when you see it. Hope, love, friendship is the message you come away from this movie with.
I can watch this film a hundred times and still enjoy it. Morgan Freeman is one of my favorite actors. And this must be his best roll ever. I thought Tim Robbins was definitely at his best in this film. All the prison guards and inmates were really believable. The story captures you from the beginning and doesn't let go until the final credits are rolled. This is the kind of film that make you think of how many inequities must exist in our prison system that no one ever hears about. Of all the the movies of this type the Shawshank Redemtion brings to light how good and evil can exist in every situation. And that nothing is black and white. But until it effect you its out of sight and out of mind.
The Shawshank Redemption is probably the most widely loved movie in all of Western culture. It's fleshed out characters give it the uncanny ability to deeply touch most of the people who watch it. We relate to Freeman's character who has lost hope in society. Robbins' is the friend who redeems us and gives hope back. Gunton, who plays Warden Norton, is one of the most overlooked villains of all time. He makes the greatest villain because he is the most realistic and relatable. He isn't a crazy murderer, he is a corrupt religious official. I believe this movie gets better when you have already seen it and know what happens. Seeing the wardern get what's coming to him is consistently satisfying. And of course, the famous beach scene leaves me on a high every time. 11/10
So is this the best of all time? For me personally no, but its def in the top 20, and I think this is probably true for most people. It is the most consistent highly rated movie, that's why it is the best. The friendship between the two main chars is the star of the movie. You will probably like this movie regardless of what age you are or your typical movie preference. Pretty awesome writing. This also shows that you don't need to spend 200m to make a good quality film, just get a good story, good actors and good screen writing. There is a huge trend in Hollywood now that you gotta spend huge to get a good return, they can learn a lot from The ShawShank Redemption
No much to say here. This movie I great. It can be a bit boring because they are always inside the prison, it's quite routine. The story is magnificent though.

Definitely worth watching.
I don't know what else to say. The classics in the classics, the top in the top, are more shocking and moving on the screen. The emperor's position is perfect, and everything is perfect!
"There is a bird whose every feather on its wing glows with freedom." This line gave me too much moved and shocked, let me see after a long time can not forget. In my opinion, the key to whether a book or a movie is good or not is whether there is a moment in it that touches you. No matter whether it is a plot, a sentence or a scene, as long as it touches you and reminds you of it no matter how long it has been, then it will be successful.

Teaches us a lot to never give up our hopes. We are alive coz our hopes are also alive. Each of the actors are best at their position. First 90 minutes seem slow but ends well. Very well.

Tremendous & Marvelous.
Best movie The thing i want to say is that with 2.3 million ratings it stands 9.3 and 1st film
Shawshank Redemption is a film about prison life and how it changes people that live there. We follow a banker who is accused of murdering his wife and her lover and how he tries to get used to his new reality. The movie has very good narration(classic Morgan Freeman Style). Some scenes are brutal but Frank Darabont used them right, he was not trying to shock the audience but to give what being lockedup really means. The movie shows you how strong routine is and how after being in prison for so long makes it more difficult to live outside than inside. Prison is about free time and times that you try to feel free through some small victories. Personally I believe that Shawshank Redemption succeeds in its purpose but it gave all the answers at the end and I didn't liked that, I wanted to find some of my own. I wanted to let me think if hope is really dangerous or not. Shawshank Redemption is a great movie and I advise anyone to see it, its definitely a classic.

The Shawshank Redemption isn't nothing over special and that is the biggest power of this movie. It doesn't have any unnatural things in it. It is beatiful story in a prison. You get to know these amazing people and the hardships of prison.

Must watch movie, always.

One of the best movies that i have ever seen.It truly transcends time and is an epic in all proportions.People just don't make movies like this anymore and this is one of my favorite movies of all time. The movie is About Andy Dufrane,a banker who has been wrongfully acquitted of killing his wife in cold blood and send to shaw shank prison.the movie shows the various hardships faced by Andy and how he does not give up hope and carries on with patience and finally becomes free. the climax is absolutely spellbinding and will leave you aghast.it is a truly great movie and i was aghast at finding out that this movie was a failure in the box office.BUT NOW ALMOST EVERYONE RECOGNIZES THIS MOVIE FOR WHAT IT TRULY IS - A MASTERPIECE OF STORYTELLING.






Decided to check out IMDb topper as a time pass and was i glad i did.One watch and "The Shawshank Redemption" has been added to my all time top movies...The golden year of '94 which gave the world some of the best films of all time didn't disappoint with this one...The cast was superb...Tim Robbins is amazing and Morgan freeman again shows why he is at the top.The bond between the main characters is well developed and the climax is mind blowing.The movie gives genuine inspiration and is more than suitable for repeated viewing when one feels down.I give it full 10/10 as it gives u more than a regular film does.It shows the importance of hope in life and why one should never loose it.The Tagline tells it all - "FEAR CAN HOLD YOU PRISONER,HOPE CAN SET YOU FREE"...
This is amazing movie.I have watch it 16th time.This is the best movie i ever seen in my life.

Never a film had given such a direct meaning to freedom, not a physical freedom but the one that dwells in the human soul. With this masterpiece seems the director, Frank Darabont, wants to prove Seneca's thesis. Seneca, in fact, argued that a man can be free on the throne or in chains. Though the role was firstly offered to other actors (Kevin Costner, Tom Hanks and Brad Pitt), Tim Robbins's Dufresne is extraordinarily expressive. The script is well adapted from the Stephen King's novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, and though Red was supposed to be Irish I forgive Darabont because he gave to the whole world the opportunity to see an amazing Morgan Freeman. I'm actually disappointed this film didn't won any of the seven Academy Awards nomination received (Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Original Score, Best Sound Mixing, Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing).

Please all, watch this fantastic piece of moving picture.
I love this film so much,it is my all time favourite movie,and I really dont think any film will have such a profound effect on me.It almost inspires you to do almost anything,and the tagline alone has a mystic and philisophical feel about it(Fear can hold you prisoner,Hope can set you free!).The great thing about this film is that it can represent anything that has happend in your life,good or bad.I think that is what gives an edge to this film,of which many films forget to include!It's quite funny to think that this film was a huge flop at the box office,and that it wasnt untill the film came out on VHS that it really got the world wide recognition that it so truly deserved!Beautifully made,inspiring and an emotional ride of hope and freedom!I absolutely love it,best film ever!!!!!!!!Stu.
The Shawshank Redemption is the best film ever made. Apart from a small number of nitpicks, this film is flawless. If you haven't seen this film, you need to. This film represents how good Hollywood can get and has set the bar very, very high. Not a single frame of film is wasted, every aspect of this film is important, it is just perfect.
From the mind of Steven King.. I wish I could argue that it shouldn't be IMBD #1 ranked move of all time but I can't .. A great story of perseverance. Perfectly cast and written.
Best movie I've seen so far. Definitely a classic that will always persist as such.
Wonderful story I feel contact, suspense and excitement with the story and actors was carefully selected I recommend watching this movie

Nice movie and you need to remain patient with the slow start. You will have an urge to watch out again.
When the VOICE of the Century - "Morgan Freeman" is narrating a feel good story, that digs out all the hidden emotions inside of you, you only wonder, WOULD HOLLYWOOD Ever make a movie like this again !!!
I'm a fan of King's work. And I confess that, when I first saw the Rita Hayworth And The Shawshank Redemption, I didn't like it very much. After I heard the coming adaptation in 1994, I thought to myself "It's gonna be a cliche prison movie". But when I first watched it on the big screen, I was totally shocked. I think they made a great favor to Forrest Gump and Tom Hanks that year. The 6 academy awards was meant to be for this film. I still get the same excitement while watching this one over and over again. Now I'm waiting for the DVD version for the film. And I also like to see a special edition for this one....
The Shawshank Redemption came out better on screen than it was in print. Brilliant performances by Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, and a stellar supporting cast leaves a lasting imprint on the viewer. With a superb score and dynamic lighting and sets, this movie should be THE example by which other movies compare to and work by.

THUMBS WAY UP!

i read novels ...a lot..& i have never come across a movie (based on a novel)which could even equal the book version ...that is...until this movie came along. My God! what a movie..i dare even say that it was better than the book...novellette actually.Hats off to the movie makers. Andy is a classic case of 'never judge a book by it's color'. Morgan freeman in his best ever role...he can really play those all-knowing-incharge types. When i got to know how Andy escaped,...it was the shocker of a life time.Not even in my wildest dreams could i have done what Andy had done to escape. The warden was thoroughly chilling with his alum effected mouth. 'the sisters' were a real good throw-in...spice to the brew. A thoroughly enjoyable movie with more turns than a twister. Watch this one first, then watch something else.
I had never heard of this movie.I missed it when it came out in theatres.But fortunately it was my destiny not to miss it.It is amazing!It has absolutely no "leaks",no parts in the plotline where you say "hey,something's wrong here".Freeman and Robbins give an excellent performance. It is one of the very few Hollywood movies I've seen,which actually contains large quantities of drama and feeling.Don't miss this movie,cause if you do you've lost one of the best experiences of your life
what a narration..???,One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me out of my chair.
Incredible story. Incredible message. Incredible acting. Incredible score. This movie encompasses everything that makes movies great. You won't finish this movie without feeling every emotion possible.
The popularity of this film seems to stem with the current emotional appeals and issues of today, just as Citizen Kane seemed to do when it was revived. What makes Citizen Kane more appealing to me though is the abundance of creativity in telling the story.

If you want a highly emotional experience, I would watch this movie. Since I am for more intelligent and unpredictable type films, I am not one for movies like this.

And if I would explain the movie in one sentence, I would say it is a classic cinema soap opera, perfectly crafted to emotionally stimulate movie viewers, in order for them to hold certain perspectives on societal issues.
What else is there to say about this movie? Every single element is great from the direction all the way down to the score, which accents every moment fantastically. And then there's the acting, which I cannot praise enough for everyone's excellent portrayal. There is not a single moment in the movie which I felt an element to be untrue to how the characters would actually be all the way to the extras which is an extremely rare achievement. But the thing that makes this so great is that for some reason it never seems to get old no matter how much I watch it, in fact, it even gets better and better because I realize how much of a gem this really is. If you are one of the few not to have viewed this, please do yourself a favor and watch one of the most incredible movies of our time.
I really liked this movie specially the ending was so satisficing but I would like to say that in my opinion I would be way better if the didn't include the valance and r*pe part in the movie.
Probably the only film a blind man can enjoy, Morgan freeman's lines should be made into and audio book. People hate narrators in films which yes can get annoying but this is one of those examples that work, that's all I have to say.
Ten outta ten. Couldn't create a better movie if you tried.
No words to say....... Unforgettable. One of the greatest movie of all time.
I loved the plot in this movie. Throughout this movie i felt like i was Andy. I wasn't watching Andy, i was Andy. And Morgan freeman was my best friend. This only says that the acting was superb. This movie is always on TV and though i don't think i have watched the whole thing one time through, i have seen all of it in different parts at least 30 times, and each time i long that i haven't seen the movie from start to finish. So i recommend all to buy it, as its something i need to go out and do myself. Mordan Freeman is one of the greatest actors of all time and after seeing this movie, you will believe so. This movie is defiantly in my top 5 list. The only movies i would say have better acting is the first to god fathers.


It takes a strong man to save himself, and a great man to save another.
It's a movie about hope,freedom and friendship, that's what we need.
The Shawshank Redemption is in my opinion the biggest best picture of all time. It one of the greatest and peaceful endings ever put on any screen. Every scene is masterful and styled so perfect that it feels like you care for this characters even though your not because they are in prison. It should be illegal for a movie to be this good.

Where do I begin? The plot is ingenious, the actors put on a great show, and the themes of hope, friendship, and freedom resonate with all. A white man, Andy, goes to prison for a crime he didn't commit, befriends a black convict, faces a corrupt prison system that threatens his chance to be free again, and relies on hope, friendship, and his wit to endure his sentence and outsmart the system.
This should deserve more collections ... don't know why it was flop.
I just can't find a single flaw with this movie. It's so perfect. The acting is fantastic, the character development is superb, the plot and script is incredible. I bought the DVD and never get tired of watching it. This movie truly belongs among the greats, such as The Godfather, Citizen Kane, and Schindler's List, and this is the only movie I would place above the others in this elite group. There is no single element that makes it such a fantastic movie; the combination of every aspect of the movie being executed perfectly makes it great. A true masterpiece.
This movie is one of the best movies ever made. I remember when i was watching it. I was feeling during the movie every emotion that you can imagine. The cast, well you know the cast... they play their roles with outstanding performance. The movie has some moments of awesomeness. Its great. Its perfect. Scenes, photography, scenario, plot, things that keeps your attention with intensity (and its not an action film), it has everything. I recommend it without hesitation. An excellent masterpiece that surely will be remembered as one of the greatest films ever. If you haven't watched this one yet, do it. Stop reading this review and go watch that movie!
What an amazing movie. The performances, even by the bit players, are fantastic, the story is wonderful, the mood is great...this is about as close as you can get to a perfect film. The fact that Steven King wrote it makes it all the more amazing.

Although one might be tempted to think of this as a prison movie, it's not; it's about hope and redemption. The hope is embodied in Tim Robbins' character (Andy); the redemption in Morgan Freeman, Red (whose redemption comes as a result of Andy's hope).
Family Movie Night No.3. My choice and I went big. Unanimously voted the full ***** So pleased that our 13 year old daughter loved it too. Still a brilliant movie after multiple watches. I was lucky enough to actually watch it in the cinema.
Therecare a lot of movies where plot takes place in a prison, with 'innocent' in-mates, cruel warden and a breathtaking escape but I'm almost sure that the director wanted to pay tribute to Bogart& Bacall's Dark Passage. There are some particular elements in the plot that resemble the 50 years old film such as; the ending scene on a south American Pacific beach (here Mexico then it was Peru), a bus ride thru the Mexican border, an innocent fugitive etc. (Morgan Feeeman of course is not Bacall...ha ha ).The rest of the story, or better to say almost all of it is an entirely different . Tim Robins and M.F work together with harmony , even pouring some humor into the gloomy atmosphere of the Shawshank prison.

No doubt one of the best film there is and ever will be. Everything about this movie, storyline, directing, acting, twists and turns and dialogues are great. One magnificent and rich story combine with excellent filmmaking. Doubt it any movie can replace this for me any time soon ...
Everytime I see this movie, I can't stop watching. The voice of Morgan Freeman is making this movie. I wished there were more movies like this but I don't think there will ever be a movie which has the same quality as this one. If I could give it a 11, I would.
Not much to say. This movie is a must-watch. I can not believe how well it was shot, how got the story was and how redeeming it is. I am very happy I have spent some quality time myself to watch it.
This movie is the best example of whatever life throws at you, you can turn it around if you believe in yourself. One of the finest masterpiece. Not watching is just not an option.
Shawshank Redemption has been my number one movie since it came out. I can't find one problem with any of the actors any of the acting the script is wonderful and the buildings are incredible. I find nothing wrong with this movie and all I have to say is good things. One of the best movies I've ever seen.
Poetic Art .....be a long time before we see a movie of this caliber.
Great movie, good story and character building. Great cast, alot if greats here.

The story is so good and keeps you wanting to watch. It's a definite must watch. Great build good the whole way.

Worth every bit of 10. Masterpiece, just go watch it. You won't be disappointed
Has been in my top 3 for years. I was surprised to learn that this movie was a box office flop initially.

I watch movies to glean life lessons. And while the ending of this movie puts the capstone on with Andy's lesson on Hope. There are so many other lessons that this movie displays; Perseverance, Optimism, the power of Humor. Shawshank Redemption proved itself to be the top rated movie in this database, I love it and too anyone who needs a movie for the ages, look no further then The Shawshank Redemption.
So there I was, relaxing one Sunday evening in front of the TV. Suddenly an advert for "The Shawshank Redemption" appeared - it was on in an hour on Channel 4 (fourth out of five for you non-Brits). I thought, "Hey, I remember that film. It's number one in the IMDB ratings." I always wondered why - I remember watching it a few years ago and thinking it was pretty good. So I thought I would sit myself down and watch the thing properly... Thank God I did. That film is absolutely fantastic. I sat rivetted for the full two and bit hours of it. The sheer complexity of the plot, the twists, the character development. The ending. You can sort of understand why it got nominated for so many Oscars. As I mentioned earlier I always wondered why this film seems to have spent most of its time at the top of the IMDB chart - not Star Wars, the Godfather, Citizen Kane even. Now I know. I suppose most of the people who have read this far would know how good this film is - but if not, here's my advice. Watch this film!
" The Movie" that gained much recognization in the late 90s (& still rocking in everyone's favorite movie list) changed everything. I mean, it literally changed almost everyone's prespectives regarding life. Nothing to say about Direction & other relatable things (bc there's nothing to say about it, everything was pitch perfect.) Many filmgoers compared Andrew's story to Messiah (Jesus) changing everyone's life (directly or indirectly that matters to that person) & yeah, they're not wrong. They also said that the movie is actually about Red's belief about friendship, truth about life, dignity, joy, etc. Oh man, I might need more space to write about this movie bc there's so much to say but I don't know how to explain it! Actually, this movie is to experience it & relate to your life. Free from whatever you thought that blocking you to live YOUR life fullest. Best FRICKIN movie ever, Period. PS - There's still some imperfections about this film but please while watching this just focus on the story & it's depth, not it's faulty things.
This is a great movie. Based on a book of a great writer Mr King. I was happy to see great acting and representing the book as it was written. Highly recommend it
One of the best movies I have ever seen in my life. Heart-touching and inspiring. Very well executed and the performance was on point. This movie will leave you with a feeling of friendship for weeks.
There's really a lot to be said for this movie. A true masterpiece. You don't understand how the time passes while watching the movie because its fluency and subject are perfect. I will recommend this movie to everyone and I will not neglect to watch it from time to time. Don't die without watching.
There is life & humor in it, and warmth in the friendship. There is even excitement & suspense, although not when we expect it. Mostly Its about holding onto a sense of personal worth, despite everything. Its perhaps a little slow in its middle passages, maybe thats part of the idea to give us a sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final redemption.
No words to describe this movie. This is the best movie I have ever watched. It felt flawless ! It truly deserves to be the first in IMDB top 250. Tim Robbins and Morgan freeman are amazing.
This is one of the best films of all time, and I'm not kidding you. Yes, you're welcome to your Godfathers' and Citizen Kanes' but this is a film everybody can experience, preferably through the medium of cinema, for what it is, a truly great story, backed up by top notch performances by Robbins and Freeman.

Everyone I have ever spoken to has enjoyed this film and they were as surprised as me to find out that although nominated, the film did not receive one single Oscar. Why is it so, that a good film like Forrest Gump can win so many but a truly great film like Shawshank wins nothing?

Words cannot describe how great this film is, one to see again and again, and not just for the triumphant twist at its conclusion! Watch it!!

This movie is brilliant. There is no need to go into detail about the reasons behind my saying so. It is a film that everyone should simply take the time out to watch- to try to describe its qualities would be at best an injustice to this piece of treasure. I have never encountered a single person who regretted watching the film, and come on lets give it some more 10s so it can beat out the godfather! (which I haven't seen so maybe once I do I'll be singing a different tune)...but regardless, this film is amazing, and not many can compare to it at all.
Sometimes, when you see a film, it touches you in such a way that you find it difficult to describe. 'Shawshank Redemption', is one such film. Everything is just class. Freeman should have had an Oscar for his performance as 'Red', and I find it amazing that 'Gump' beat it to best film. Don't get me wrong, 'Gump' is a good film, but in my humble opinion the only film that can come close to this is 'the Godfather'. The ending to the film is just incredible, one of the few times that I have ever almost cried during a film. I won't give anymore away about the film. Just go and see it.NOW.I mean turn off your computer and get a video or DVD of it by any means possible. I agree that this is one of the GREATEST films ever.
The dramatic experience we have never ever seen before.... Amazing ;-)
Best movie of all time. The last 15 minute in best munites of my life.
This is the best movie I've ever seen, actually, I think it surpassed the Godfather. There are four things that I liked about this movie. 1)The storyline is terrific and unique. A former banker went into prison of murdering his wife, but he hasn't done all of that. We haven't seen this kind of movie yet. 2)The theme. The movie is about prison, in our impression, prison is a bad place, and everybody that went to prison will be desperate. But not Andy, he got along with those prisoners, and kept thinking about escape. That educates the people, don't give up hope. 3)The character. The main characters were impressive, Andy: He was well-educated, and unlucky, hopeful, and intelligent. Red: He was friendly, smart, but he wasn't hopeful. He didn't know what to do after the parole. Anyway, he overcame it at last. 4)The acting: Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman did an excellent job in acting, and every single character in the Shawshank Redemption did well. Well, I think this movie has taken Godfather's place, to be the best movie I've ever seen.
This is an amazing Adaption of Stephen King's story. A timeless story/movie that you will watch again and again,
I've been hearing a lot of positivt things about this movie for a long time, and finally I had the opportunity to watch it myself.

My expectations were high, but to be honest I didn't expect it to be this good! This film is just excellent, and I warmly recommend it to everyone!

"Redemption of Shawshank" is actually a kind of redemption of self. A life that pursues oneself is not just a dream, it is only how to do it yourself. Regardless of the outcome, this process is important.
This movie released 1994 but till the movie is the number one. There are significantly several reason for this. I watch the movie many times and every time I find something new. 'Shawshank Redemption' is one of the best movie if you love to watch. There are so many story in one movie. So, if you a movie lover and till not watch the movie, just watch.
I loved this movie and it was one of the best I have ever seen. Truly amazing.
Beautiful film about captivity and hope that helps you survive, this movie is very hard and raw and hard and for this you stick to the screenfrom the beginning at the end, it's impossible to get bored, and the ending is fantastic ande is the fantastic conclusion of a very deep movie
If there's a word better than the 'best' then I want to use it. But there's no other word then the best. Let's just say it's the best. You can watch this movie like a million times but you'll never get bored. You can watch this move any time anywhere you want. That's why we says it's the best tie movie with The Godfather.
Morgan Freeman gave a nice performance however Tim Robbins possessed no emotion whatsoever and I cared little if even at all for any of the characters. Not particularly well written with a warm message that is delivered over an overly long period of time.
First of all I honestly don't know how to write a review for this movie. This didn't even feel like a movie for me it was so connected and just idk with time it makes u think omg what did I just watch, it is so beautiful.

It is quite literally breathtaking.is no wonder that the film has such a high rating,. The story, the acting but most of all, this movie is about how it makes you feel. So satisfying and still the voice over of Morgan Freeman is in my ears. Story of a hope,life, friendship and overcoming hardships and at the end it's so satisfying.

There is a reason why this has high ratings. You need to watch it, it's amazing.
I don't care if there's only one female in the whole film that isn't a poster or actress within the world of the movie. I don't care if it's almost exclusively white guys. This movie is truly incredible.
Upon seeing The Shawshank Redemption, I realized that a movie can be so good and so powerful that it can keep you in awe for a long time. I saw Shawshank years ago and have probably seen it fifty times since then and not once have I been bored or uninterested. I have been blown away by this movie since the first time that I saw it. There is truly no movie better that The Shawshank Redemption. There is no better story and there is certainly no better theme. Redemption, hope and friendship have been displayed in the finest form leaving you filled with the two former. Truly, the greatest film ever made.
Its...... its....... So Good. So Good. The Plot, The Twist, The Characters, The Antagonists, The Movie. Has a very special place in my heart. DO NOT WATCH THE TRAILER. It has the major spoiler.

Cinematography, Acters, Story ,direction all super
This is my favourite movie ever infinty even more than the room.
It deserves the rate No. #1 Of all time The viewer doesn't need more than simple budget to enjoy the films This movie well done Great choice for the actors no much nudity , violence at the minimum I can give it 10/10 without thinking twice.
G: Interesting themes and highlights the prison system in the US

C: Despite being fairly long, I didn't get bored so it's decent in my books, interesting to see Andy's life inside the prison.


I am just here stroking the ego of one of the greatest films of all time its not really a useful comment but I am sure there will be plenty of useful ones out there. I can't give it 10, its not within me to give any film a 10 seeing as nothing is perfect, and moments of this film did seem a little unbelievable...

Its a great story, great acting blah blah blah the film industry is not dead as long as for every Michael Bay film coming out their is a film like this in existence

get it and watch it but don't show it to kids because it depicts suicide and violence and they might go out and kill someone......

The Shawshank Redemption is the best movie ever made. I first saw this movie last summer and really didn't know what to expect, given all the stupid early 90s movies that are out there. But once about 10 minutes in a realized that this was going to be a great movie, and it was. It, in my opinion, portrayed what it really would be like to live in jail and, for me, how unfair the justice system can be given andy was obviously innocent. They way he escaped was pretty cool too. So, if you have not seen this movie as of now go out and rent it. It is definitly worth it. ***** outta *****
This is movie making at it's best. This movie has no flaws. Unlike other movies in it's category this is niether slow moving nor boring. It keeps you on the edge of your seat. It has excellent characters, a moving theme, and subplots that are more intense then some movies alone. Morgan Freeman has the best narration of all narrations. The music is inspiring. I especially like the opening of the movie. Starting with his conviction then going on to Morgan Freemans character, and conecting the two with the line "when andy dufrain asked me to get him rita haywrith, I said fine." Then the splendid shot of the prison. (personally my favorite cinematographic achievment ever)

Story telling at its finest. A movie that makes you care about its characters and what happens to them makes this truly a movie to love. It's also a movie that everyone can watch and enjoy, not just a subset of viewers. If you've not watched this classic movie you're doing yourself a disservice. Perfect in every way possible.
This the most overrated movie I have seen, how this movie is number 1 on IMDb is beyond me. Now this movie isn't bad it's just that the movie is so over rated that there are movies not in the top 250(Jurassic Park) that I'd rather watch than this. And that are more ground breaking than this movie was. Now the best part of this movie in my opinion is Morgan Freeman he is just SUCH a talented actor in the position he plays in this movie. He is the main reason I watched this movie. This is not Morgan's best movie but certainly not his worst. The reason I gave this a 7 is how over rated it is. I'm not saying I hate this movie, which I don't, I'm just shocked at the fact that its number 1?! There are a lot more movies out there that deserve more credit than this film.
Gripping, emotional tale of struggle. Must see for anyone.
This movie really gives hope in one's life when a man has lost everything in life. Freedom is luxurious but again to enjoy that freedom hope is needed. Its full of life lessons. Wowww what a movie. Story telling, the plots and the cast. Even in 2021 this movie looks fresh. Its one of its kind.
It is incredible how Frank Darabont, in his first direction, was able to create a masterpiece of such stature as this marvelous film (masterfully written by Darabont himself). The ingredients of this success were, of course, also the formidable cast (Robbins and Freeman) and a wonderful soundtrack by Thomas Newman. The film underlines the benign and compassionate nature of humanity after all, telling the story with great clarity and with remarkable dramatic tension. Some say we are facing the best film of all time. I am not very convinced of this, but undoubtedly, in my opinion, it occupies a deserved place in the shortlist of the top 10. It is a film capable of giving you deep emotions and of raising the spirit in the darkest moments and therefore a true heritage of humanity tout court.
I should say that usually I'm not much into drama. But the beauty of The Shawshank Redemption magically forced me into watching the whole film three times over the years.Its the kind of movie that is so powerful and realistic you become glued to your seat until the end. The twist at the end gave the movie a perfect finish without affecting the fine gist of the whole movie. Shawshank Redemption teaches us, improves our feelings about the world and changes our expectations about 'luck'.

Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins deliver their best performance to date. If Tom Hank's movie Forrest Gump was not made in the same year, this would most certainly be the winner of the 67th academy awards.
Surprising to know why this movie just had Oscar nominations but did not receive an award!! Of course, it came along with other all time greats like Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction, this movie should have still swept the Oscars. This should recieve the Oscar for "Greatest Movie of All time". Watching this movie will keep you thinking about life and thoroughly life changing with marvellous philosophies about Hope and what it can do to a person. No surprises this is on top of the IMDB list.
The finest movie ever made, no question. If you can sit through this and not be moved by the sheer power of the story, performances and imagery you are not of this earth. I had already read the Stephen King short story so the ending was no surprise but, guess what, it didn't matter ! That was just the cherry on top of a supreme masterpiece of chocolate cake. This is the current yard stick by which all other movies should be measured against. The basic foundation of the film is so strong that all the other parts must have dropped into place with ,seemingly, effortless ease. Hopefully one day something better will come along that will shift the goal posts once again. But for now, The Shawshank Redemption is a more than worthy No. 1 on IMDb.
Shawshank is an example of the beauty and power that great cinema can conj our. A deceptive film of prison life that contains violence, humor, an extremely tear-jerking moment. A lot happens, yet the film just seems to amble confidently along like the film's main character. This film works on so many levels and definitely rewards repeated viewing. The cinematography and music are wonderful, as are the central performances. Yet for all this it is the tale itself and how it is told that makes this (one of) the greatest stories ever told. People have theorized about what this film means ...is it an disguised story of Jesus?...a simple tale of friendship?...a tale of corruption?...a lecture on faith and 'holding on'?...or is the main character not who we think it to be for 3/4 of the film? After all there is one major 'redemption' in this film: a man who has to decide whether "It's time to get busy dying, or get busy living". REDEEM YOURSELF, SEE THIS FILM.

I saw this film when I was fourteen, and at the time it was the most flawlessly impressive piece of storytelling I had ever seen. If I were forced to make a top 10 list this movie would certainly be right up there. Robbins and Freeman are both incredible, and as good as they are in other films I would still say it remains their finest work. The scenery and costumes, the prison which if I remember right was an actual prison back around the same time the film took place. It is all so rich with texture and detail that it draws you in. The story is great, Stephen King has written some amazing stories and this is a testament that he is not just a horror novel expert. The actors all take it to the next level and make it a pretty much perfect film. It is pretentious to say a film or any piece of art is perfect, however I honestly can't say there is anything I dislike about the film. No scene seems long and unnecessary, every actor is perfectly cast and feels very authentic. It really is the real deal. Like American History X and some other films it is a movie that everyone with a moderately high IQ and a love of cinema should see one day.

There are standard ways to stage a prison film and standard ways to tell a story by Stephen King. But "The Shawshank Redemption," based on a King novella and set in the correctional institution of the title, succeeds in avoiding the familiar.

Without a single riot scene or horrific effect, it tells a slow, gentle story of camaraderie and growth, with an ending that abruptly finds poetic justice in what has come before. The writer and director, Frank Darabont, tells this tale with a surprising degree of loving care.

I suppose directed while ago represented era even longer ago but shows the humans did not really changed in behaviour that much.... Drama as it should be!
Growing up reading Stephen King I thought Stand By Me was going to be best film made from his pages. While Shawshank is a little different than King's vision, the cast (outstanding) and timing in this movie make it a masterpiece 2nd only to the Godfather
*SPOILERS* I'll just get it out of the way now. This is the prime example to prove that Morgan Freeman is among the greatest narrators ever, if not THE best. Tim Robbins, the lead in this movie, creates a great duo with Morgan Freeman, with the dialogue shared between the two feeling natural, as well as superb acting from both. The story line is what presents the backbone for these great performances as the narrative is a major part of what makes it one of the greatest films of all time. A man is accused for his wife's murder, is sent to prison where he serves life sentences which gives him the time to redeem himself (though he did not commit the crime is accused of) and eventually escape. The movie is full of great writing, acting, directing and cinematography and deserved to win at least one Oscar out of its seven nominations.
Whenever I see a prison or even think about it, the first thing that comes to my mind is this film. Maybe it's because I have watched this masterpiece so many times that it's actually made a place inside my head and will never go away. I just cannot explain how well this film is made. The direction and screenplay by Frank Darabont and the fact that it is based upon "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption" by Stephen King makes it highly likable. Moving on to the performances by Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne and Morgan Freeman as Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, they shine just like a diamond, stupendous performances by them. I still can't believe that it never got any major accolade and didn't even make much money but still it has developed into something sensational which can't be missed.
Do I feel that the Shawshank Redemption should be on the Top 100 films of all time list? No. Do I feel it is the best King adaptation out there? No. Did I thoroughly enjoy it? Yes. Disregarding the answer to the first two questions; what we have here is a pretty watered down story about a man (Tim Robbins) who is imprisoned for the murder of his adulterous wife and her lover. While there he becomes a "better person" through the tutelage of a co-inmate; Morgan Freeman in a pleasantly subdued performance, who shows him the ropes of prison life. Everyone knows how the end of the film goes; but it is getting there that is the fun part, for the most part. There are scenes in the film of great fascination; scenes that may haunt you, scenes that may evoke shrill laughter, and scenes that may cause you to ponder the meaning of life. Overall viewing is worthwhile but not essential as this site and various others would lead you to believe.
I saw this movie for the first time 8 years ago. I just happened to see it by chance on cable because I never heard about "The Shawshank Redemption" before. After watching the movie I was immensely impressed and positively surprised. Definitely this is the best movie I've ever seen. The story, the direction and the cast (Specially Tim, Morgan and Gil Bellows) are perfect! The Shawshank Redemption really deserves that spot in the rankings. This movie is a "must see"!

The movie not only offers a great viewing experience but also a lesson to take home. Wish more movies are made in this fashion instead of the blood and gore that people seem to appreciate nowadays.

Thanks for reading this review.
You have to live this movie I didn't know it after watching it 10 times but finely I got the feeling Some masterpieces should be watched listened and read for 10000 times until they'd be comprehended completely Long night of prison You'll never get out No hope No fairytale But there might be redemption
The wonderful masterpiece which is very emotional and gives a sigh of relief at the end. Wonderful movie and amazing chain of events level screenplay. One of the finest work by Stephen King.

This film is truly one of the greatest of all time. Much like the other works based on Stephen King novels, there is a main storyline to follow, and then another deeper story.

Morgan Freeman does a very impressive job portraying a man who has been held prisoner by his own fear of the outside world, and who is eventually freed by hope. Tim Robbins also did an excellent job, but Frank Darabont really deserves a lot of credit for fleshing out this beautifully written script into a great movie.

This is a movie that warrants multiple viewings. Four stars!
I do not normally consider myself to be much of a drama fan, having always preferred the action-adventure genre. "The Shawshank Redemption" is the film that changed that feeling for me, and reading the other comments and reviews, for a lot of other people as well. Frank Darabont made a giant leap forward from his previous efforts in the "B" horror film world when he came up with this gem. Tim Robbins turned in his best performance as Andy Dufresne, and Morgan Freeman was brilliantly cast as Red. This is a "Feel-Good" movie of the first order, and well worth it's number 2 ranking on the IMDb top 250. Everything works in this film, the score, the acting, the realism of the prison scenes, absolutely everything! "Shawshank" is as close to a perfect film as you will ever see. If you do not already own a copy of this masterpiece, run, do not walk, to the video store and purchase a copy. It should be in the library of every movie fan. A 5 star, 10 out of 10, classic movie!!
This is simply the best movie I have ever come across. It makes you "stick with the movie" from the beginning to the very last end. Especially the ending is great, but also the build up to it, the great acting of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.

Definitely a must-see for everyone !!
Stephen King's original story 'Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption' has long been one of my favourites, and when I heard it was getting the Hollywood treatment I was suspicious (after all, Stephen King's Hollywood track record isn't exactly outstanding). Then I heard Morgan Freeman was involved, and thought, 'Sounds good!' I was living in England when the film was released, so had to wait until several weeks after the U.S. opening before I saw it. I took my husband along with me: he's not a huge King fan, and I think that the prospect of a two-hour-plus prison film based on a Stephen King story wasn't hugely appealing: but we both came out realising we had seen a truly great film. Strangely, British movie critics (on the whole) gave the film a much better reception than did the American ones, and right from the start SHAWSHANK has been more highly thought of there: the British film magazine EMPIRE has recognised its quality from the start, and in its recent tenth anniversary issue picked it as one of the ten best films of the 1990s (with detailed reasons). To me it's one of the ten best films I've ever seen: it's one that repays multiple viewings, and the two central performances are outstanding. I'm now eagerly awaiting the film's DVD release.
Okay, I will not reiterate what praises others have said about this movie. I think it's brilliant and touching, and others have expressed this more eloquently than I can. See for yourself.

I just wish IMDB had a 1 to 100 scale for rating movies, instead of 1 to 10. Then I could give this movie a perfect 100, while giving something like "Cinema Paradiso" a 94 or 95. As it stands, I gave both movies a ten, but I think Shawshank is a shade better, and I wish a new ratings could reflect that opinion.
If you haven't seen this masterpiece, you need to watch it. If you look at the voting, 47.3% of the voters have given it a 10. I'd give it a 12, it's the best movie I've ever seen. This movie is hilarious at times, but parts of it can make you cry, it ends on a perfect note and has a great cast. I've seen this movie multiple times, and like it more every time.
What can I say that hasn't been said. The beauty of this movie can hardly be put into words. The more I watch it, the better it gets. Mr. Darabont did a beautiful job of directing, I'm anxiously awaiting "The Green Mile" now. The little scenes are what makes it beautiful. Andy on the roof with his smile and the aerial shot of the prison while the music is playing. I don't want to spoil anything, but the quotes are what will stay with you. After seeing this film (way too many times according to those around me), I've adopted my particular philosophy from it. As Red says, "Get busy livin', or get busy dyin'. That's goddamn right". See this movie and vote it back up to #1 on the IMDB list.
Shawshank really surprised me. I didn't think any prison movie could shape up to Escape from Alcatraz but this one did! Tim Robbins gives a brilliant performance and the supporting cast shows no flaws. The ending will leave you begging for more. I recommend for everyone to see this great film.
The greatest movie ever made. The script is amazing. Tim Robbins is amazing. Morgan Freeman is amazing. The rest of the cast is amazing, particularly the guy who played the villain in Highlander. The film is just amazing and it is tragic that it was overlooked by the academy.
For me, the best movies inspire emotion. This movies does just that for me, better than any other movie to date.

The message here is one of mostly one of hope with a dash of justice thrown in. There is hope for the unjustly incarcerated, and justice for those who do wrong. Andy DeFresne, despite all the odds against him, never lets the situation get to him. Red finds his hope through Andy.

The onscreen performances are superb. Every character has dimension and adds to the message. The screenplay, the most important component of any movie, is simply flawless.
I think most of what I think about this movie has already been said in a number of positive and negative reviews already available for reference. It certainly is what I would classify as a great movie, but since I haven't seen as many films as I would like, I'm not sure whether it would be appropriate for me to call it a "best of all time".

You know when you see the end of a movie and it leaves you so shocked it takes your breath away(think "Sixth Sense")? Let me put it this way: have the Resolve carpet cleaner handy, for you will be dropping drinks throughout the movie. It surprises you at every turn.

I'm not a movie reviewer, and all I know is how I reacted to seeing it the first few times. My family couldn't watch it with me, as my constant "Oh my God!"'s annoyed them.

Just take my work for it and see it. It can't hurt you.
The dialogue 10/10 The performance 10/10 The story telling 10/10.
Sucked into this movie by his earnest persona, I watched despite the (apparent) certainty that he would live out his whole life in prison for a crime he says he did not commit : a depressing thought but a totally upbeat movie as his character Andy moves from surviving to molding the lives of others in a positive way. Told from the viewpoint of fellow prisoner recounting his experiences with Robbins' character (Morgan Freeman - another delight to watch) This movie, like its protagonist, is a champ! Watch this movie! I've seen it four times and still channel-stop on it.(PS Be sure to hiss at Bob Gunton as the truly evil and hypocritical warden! A real contrast to Andy's good nature and philanthropy.)
One of the greatest movie I've seen. It tuched me deep in my heart. Absolutely brilliant.

Congratulations King.



I'm not going to rattle on for hours about how good this film is, as I can't say anything that hasn't already been said. The plot twist in this film is second to none, just a pity it was ruined for me.... This film is a masterpiece and my third favourite film of all time, second only to The Godfather and Schindlers List. The Shawshank Redemption, 9/10. The second best film of the 1990's.
This is why people watch movies. To escape from everyday life and sit completely absorbed in someone else's story. And what a wonderful story it is. On the outside it looks to be a sap of movie, the kind of movie that shamelessly wants to jerk some tears. But it bold enough to break free from the prison of other formula films. The cliches are all there and in familiar places but on a higher level and they are warm and welcome. This is the kind of movie that I will finish watching and feel the need to rewind it and play it again. This is truly one for the ages.
I have watched a lot of movies in my life but never watch any like this. What this movie doesn't have? This movie got everything
Struggling in despair, never giving up the new hope.How many people are satisfied with the status quo, but once they get out of that environment, they really despair?
It's the no-bull performances that hold back the flood of banalities. Robbins and Freeman connect with the bruised souls of Andy and Red to create something undeniably powerful and moving.
With this film, cinema reached its top. The plot, the characters, the directing, the acting, the message that the movie contains, everything is capable to make a person get stuck on it from the beginning to the end. Frank Darabont introduces himself to the world as a genius with this piece of art in the year of 1994. Morgan Freeman proves himself once again as a great actor in movie industry, as well as Tim Robbins. All the people involved made a terrific job. Stephen King couldn't imagine that his tale could be adapted in such a perfect way. The more you see it, the more you may want to see it again. It's a movie to feel. It's a movie to think about, all the times in your life when you think there's no escape. It's a movie to put a smile on your face, despite all the sadness that may exist. It is perfection, and the greatest movie of all time.
"The Shawshank Redemption" is interesting. I found myself more interested in the personalities of Red and Andy more than the actual plot. The characters are the movie - they make up the plot. This movie creates an immersive setting or its audiences to brought in with its characters to the walls of Shawshank. In its genuine event simplicity, Shawshank instead focused the complexities of humans. My favorite character is Red, a man who seems to be fine viewing the world through an institutionalized lens. But that himself, makes him non-institutionalized - he has created his own identity within Shawshank which is nevertheless hard not to remember. Lastly my only critique is while Shawshank connects with reality by illustrating further upon the existential crisis facing many people within social institutions, Shawshank creates an overly fictional, less violent, more ideal prison that is not in touch with the current extremeties apparent in modern day prison systems.
Such a delightful and suspenseful movie it was. Till date no prison break movie has been as awesome as TSR. Prison Break movie needs strong Story and Casting which it was solefully held tight in this movie. Best of best TSR still it didn't receive any oscars, it really brokes my faith for such academy awards.
The message of this film is hope. This film is made on hope. And that's why it will never die, it will live on forever. Based on a short story by horror master Stephen king, it was directed like no film before. At the time no one cared for it, pulp fiction and Forrest Gump had just come out and no one cared about this film. But then it became what it is today. A masterpiece, most people say the godfather is the best film ever. No! The godfather isn't half the film shawshank is.
This film gave me a great feeling at the end. My mother thought it wouldn't be my typical everyday action movie, I saw the recommendations and had a look at it. I was amazed, and so was my mum. At the end I saw her on the edge of her seat yelling at Morgan Freeman to do what Tim Robbins had said.

I recommend this movie very much. It is a sad, funny at times and it is most importantly, Heart warming. For those of you that haven't seen it I tell you now, this is the best movie of the Nineties.

Just another thing, I saw Forrest Gump and that was not as good as this. The Shawshank Redemption should have won the Oscars!
Perfect story about life, hopes and freedom. Mr. Robbins and Freeman is great duo. Their characters trait are very attractive. The storyline bring us to watch them specifically and what will happen next. This film absolutely the greatest movie all of time.
This is my favorite movie of all time. I remember sitting in silence with my friend for several minutes after the movie ended. We were just taking it all in. I don't think I can say anything about this movie that hasn't already been said but I can tell you how it made me feel. It definitely impacted me. It was an emotional adventure and I loved every minute of it. Great performances and an incredible ending. I have a hard time imagining any movie could surpass it.
The writing of this movie is great Loved this movie Worth watching
This is masterpiece movie.one of the best ,worthwatching, one can only enjoy this by watching it.
Not sure what to say about this film. I'm no psychoanalyst or writer. I really liked the music (title and in film)
When I saw the film for the first time, I knew from the beginning that in order to better understand it, I had to watch it for the second time.

A combination of courage, hard work, freedom and humanity.
A very beautiful film with a narrator who tells the story in the most beautiful way possible.
There are few movies that have the ability to do what this movie can. I am writing this review after finishing watching this film again on TV. The deep character development of the two main characters gets you so invested into the film, that you feel as if you know them. Then as the film unfolds and is resolved you are taken up in your being and then right towards the end you are taken "through". A truly perfect film in cinema. The height of idealism in all its glory. A perfect example of the height of brilliant film making and artistic craftsmanship. A movie that will be in museums. If you are watching this for the first time, it will be an experience you will never forget.
When I saw that this movie had 9.3 on IMDb I thought it was overrated because the only movie I have seen close to that score is the godfather and that is a masterpiece. So I thought it would just be an okay movie but holy moly this movie is so good in every way! This movie is seriously flawless and I have never seen a movie with so few thing holding it back and I dont really have the words to express my feelings to this film it is just truly amazing.

Summary: Might be the best movie I've ever seen.
Based upon a novella written by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption is unique in that its delivery is more effective as a motion picture than as a work of literature. Enter Andy Defresne- a man convicted of crimes that he did not commit. Such is his reality, and our deepest fear. Tim Robbins offers a stellar performance, depicting a realistic character weighed down by his situation, yet while in the presence of this adversity he does not abdicate hope. His tenacity is unparalleled, and is undoubtedly a characteristic to be admired, if not imitated. Accompanying this man?s quest is a case study of the corruption inherent in American corrective facilities. While many atrocities are brought to light, the resulting product is one of the most life affirming movies I have ever viewed as Andy eventually reaches his 'destination.'
I'll always remember watching this film when i was younger, it was one of the first films that ever gave me that 'mind-blowing' experience you sometimes get when you've seen a brilliant movie. Tim Robbins gives what is undoubtedly for me his best performance as Andy, who is such an inspiring character that you find yourself truly rooting for even in the early stages of the film. Morgan Freeman gave a stellar performance, arguably his best also, as Red, Andy's cell mate another character you grow to love during this wonderful piece of cinema.

This is a film i will never tire of, if you haven't watched it for whatever reason, you should do! A solid 10/10 for me! enjoy.


This is one of my favorite movies of all time. The story is exciting, intriguing, and believable. That acting is some of the best I have ever seen and you really feel involved with characters. It really makes you think and is highly entertaining. Morgan Freeman is one of my favorite actors and his performance is once again mesmerizing. Its one of those movies you don't mind seeing over and over again. I loved it.
When I first got this movie I was never bothered to watch it. I first heard of it from my cousin who said it was "so damn good". I never watched it for two months but when I got seriously bored I just decided it was time. And boy was my cousin right. This film is damn good. Andy Dufrene is accused of murder due to circumstantial evidence which results in him being sent to shawshank. There he meets Red and his mates. Over the years they bond and share a powerful friendship. This film tells the triumph of the human spirit, and how hope is a good thing. The acting is top notch, direction and cinematography brilliant, and the soundtrack empathizes the film like no other can.

I seriously recommend this film to those that want to see a brilliant masterpiece.

9/10
On reading the comments of others left on the page i was surprised. I would rate this as worthy of being 3rd in the top 250. The film may not be an action packed ride from start to finish as you may expect a jail break to be, but this is because it is not what the film is meant to be about. If you have read Kings original short story you will see that the adaptation of this film does it justice, as so many attempts of making films from his books have not, with the exception of stanly kubrick's adaptation of the shining. The acting by tim robbins and morgan freeman only adds to the prominence of this film in expressing the adversity that was suffered by prisoners back in the 40's.

This has to be my favourite film from a Steven King novel and one of my all time top ten. The story is fantastically told and the acting brilliant-a real credit to one of the best stories for a long time. I wont spoil the storyline for anyone who wasn't watched it but suffice to say you will not be disappointed.
One of the best movies of all time. They simply do not make movies like this anymore. Top notch cast, story, and pace.
I saw this movie about a week ago and I really enjoyed it. I also have the movie and I've seen it about three or four times. It was also on TV. Morgan Freeman was terrific as Red. I think that everybody should watch this movie. 10/10
This movie was clearly the best movie I've ever seen. I watched it because it was number 1 on IMDb. Turns out my favorite movies like the return of the king, Forrest Gump, or the dark night didn't even come close to it. Why can't movie directors now days make such a good movie like this anymore? I would definitely recommend people to watch this if you like serious movies or meaningful movies. But if your the type of person who has ADHD and can't stand watching a talking scene for 10 seconds, i wouldn't recommend this to you. I would warn you that this is a long movie and it's not meant to watch it in birthday parties unless if your friends are all nerds or serious people. Also don't let your parents see it because there are many swear words in it, with some violence and almost a gay sex-scene. Other wise this movie is great!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Based on the Stephen King Short Story, This movie, a prison story is a unique tale of a man wrongfully placed in prison, who was married and wife murdered by someone else. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins plays the lead parts and makes this a movie worth seeing.

I can't say enough about this film its simply the King of Kings when it comes to movies.Other movies might have something better, but put all the contents of a great movie together and this one hast is all Narration, acting, humour, direction, story, suspense, soundtrack...the full package.Its a powerful movie and I don't know how you can keep your emotions in check with such a intense story. Its a tragedy this didn't win an Oscar for best picture over Forrest Gump...for me there isn't many movies that possess the overall strength of this movie, hence why its still #1 in on IMDb and top 5 on many other reputable internet sites.
The Shawshank Redemption is right up there with my favourite movies. Its probably the best deep story example of a movie that I like.

The film is a touching tale of the dehumanizing effects of a life in prison, a modern version of which can be seen on HBO's Oz. I digress, the first time I saw this movie, I was actually touched by the story.

I began to feel crappy for Andy, I understood Red's bitterness, disgusted when Andy crawled out the crap pipe. The movie tells a very very powerfully depressing story, but to keep the watcher from getting mad has an amazingly uplifting ending, that makes the story seem worth it.

Amazing, enough said.
The criteria for a classic film to become timeless is very simple. It must speak to every generation that comes in contact with it. Films like the The Wizard of Oz and Gone With the Wind, both which were released in 1939, have obviously aged well. The Wizard of Oz, like The Shawshank Redemption, was not an immediate success and yet it grew an audience. The Shawshank Redemption is a well told story that seems to connect with people on a basic level. It has also subsequently grown in viewership in its first decade. It will be very interesting to see how it fares 50 years from now. Will this film stand the test of time? Will this film always remain a favorite among audiences?
Simply put, ShawShank is the best movie ever...bar NONE. A very good story, excellent directing and production and a stellar cast. Was robbed by the Academy when they gave best picture to Forrest Gump. A great movie for the family (13 and over) and surely a movie you will watch again and again.

No matter how many times I watch this movie, I never get over it. A genuine and absolute outlook on life and death, freedom and captivity, friend and foe. A perfect score is what the Shawshank Redemption will always deserve. Its idea will never die.
Truly a work of art.

A great movie with a little bit of everything thrown in. Like The Green Mile (Which is also another brilliant prison movie & King adaptation) this has to be one of Stephen Kings best horror stories and pretty much one of the best prison films ever created. What could be more horrifying than being locked up for the rest of your life in a prison like Shawshank knowing you're innocent?

With great acting by a top notch cast, a brilliant score, superb screenplay & direction by Frank Darabont and a simple message of hope, what's not to like?

I highly recommend this movie. And if you haven't read the book yet then go out and buy it. It's pretty short but you'll be glad you did.
I watched this movie for the umpteenth time probably last Sunday and how much I loved it yet again!!! A movie I would never ever get bored of and definitely, one of my all time favorites. A simple yet wonderful story about HOPE!!! HOPE â€“ One word that drives all of us and gives us reason to live. We push ourselves through our mundane lives in the hope of achieving / finding something that we dream of. In the words of this movie's protagonist â€“ "hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies"!!! Superlative performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.

A must watch if you haven't!!!
This is possibly the best film ever made. Everything from the script and acting to the camera work and set are remarkable. Based on a Stephen King novella, it is easily the best adaption from a written story ever put to film. Tim Robbin's certainly deserved an Oscar for this film, his performance was moving yet not overpowering. Even though the audience is left out of the story in certain parts, we still feel strongly for his character Andy Dufresne. Morgan Freeman is perfect, even though he's not the Irishman that was intended for the role. He narrates the film with ease and we connect to his character as if we were a part of the movie. Frank Darabont, director of the film, allowed us to feel what Andy was feeling through the use of small stories and camera shots. The immensity of the prison can be felt instantly from our first viewing. The connection the audience makes to the film as a whole makes The Shawshank Redemption what it is: one of the best films ever made.
An experience you'll gonna remember forever.I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are going through.I'm trying to save you money; this is the last film title that you should consider borrowing. Renting Shawshank will cost you five bucks... just plunk down the $25 and own the title. You'll wind up going back to this gem time and time again. This is one of few movies that are truly timeless. And it's entertaining and moving, no matter how many times you view it.
I love Morgan Freeman and have been to the Mansfield reformatory once. It was closed for the season. This Prison, has been used in multiple movies. Anyhow, back to the rating. I give it a 10, i love movies with a narrative setting. Also, loved the fact that he was in prison for a crime that he didn't commit, and he was able to have posters, especially of Rita hayworth in his cell. I didn't particularly, care for the SISTER'S theme, but I do know it happens in prisons, so i can appreciate the set-up for that scenario. I love how Tim Robbins character, developed a relationship with a younger guy so he could mentor him, and then he got killed by the warden's guards. I also loved the ending, when he got revenge on the Warden, and was able to escape with all of the warden's money. Best classic Movie!!! I do end up not watching the Sister's scenario, but other than that this is truly, one of the best classic movies EVER.
This movie should be added as a syllabus for students of film.

Everything is great, the direction, acting, the works! A brutally honest look at hope, which is just inside the realm of possibility.

This makes you want to take life in a better spirit than you already do.

Should be shown to young adults to teach them the value of patience, which is something that's going out of fashion in this era of 'everything online'.

There's something to be said about Stephen King. . . he may not be the best writer, but he is definitely the best storyteller.
Putting yourself mentally where no one can get to you mentally. Now that's something to pull off for ourselves in a daily life habit. The pressures in a prison are a great deal more concerning than a day to day grunge and nose to the grind stone. Timothy Robbins does amazing in his role in this Movie and the support of friend made of Morgan Freemans character, solid. It really had me pulled in from beginning to end. getting more review lines in can give me an opportunity to be chatty, sure. But sometimes a movie is just a must see. The less you say. The simplistic thought of conveying there is always something more found the second time around. There's much to catch. If it's on my watchlist I've seen it and will watch it over and over.That's a great way of putting it together in wording for me.
Shawshank Redemption is one of those films, where after watching are happy you invested your time in. The story line is simple, but the way it is made is terrific. You instantly root for Andy, the main character because he so likable. Upon watching this film there was so much hype around it, and I had to know why. Many famous scenes are recreated in other movies, and you will understand and respect the depth of it. Morgan Freeman gives a performance of a lifetime as per usual, and creates a wonderful film alongside Tim Robbins and other cast members. Frank Darabont clearly wanted to go out a create a masterpiece, and truly succeeded. There is no way this film can ever be forgotten, see for yourself.

Seen this one a couple of times, never fails to disappoint. Erm, top 10 all time.

T_ dogs reviews
Best movie I ever saw. It's a pinnacle in humankind's endeavor in film making and unbelievably without any special effects or fanfare. It's a story about normal human beings. Direction, screenplay and acting all are mind-boggling. Equally mind-boggling is how can this movie not get an Oscar even after considering that jury at Academy awards makes huge mistakes sometimes(remember "Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon"). In my mind I've no doubt that even if "Avatar", "Titanic", "Return of the King" and "Ben Hur" were all released in same year as this movie, the Oscars for best film, best direction, best actor and best supporting actor should all go to this movie. I've become a huge fan of Tim Robbins (he is brilliant in "The Mystic River" too) and Morgan Freeman. Also, let's not classify it as a prison movie since it's in a class of its own. It exhausts all superlatives. If you haven't watched it, watch it now. Who knows the world may end tomorrow :-).
... I've watched this movie ... I've cried at the end of this movie (would match the number of times watched) ... Left behind whatever I was doing or watching beforehand if it comes on tv.

It's just a great movie. Wonderful acting, wonderful script. Great score. Not a thing out of place for me. It's impossible not to get completely absorbed.
Best Direction and Story Ever. Loved the Performance of Tim Robbins And Morgan Freeman. Really A Mind Blowing Movie.
This movie is the most overrated movie of all time. The beginning of the movie is disgusting. Then it passes slowly , slowly , slowly ! .. There are no events !!! only a bunch of people in prison talking to each other.. that's it !! The movie was boring and long.. I mean very boring .. If it was not rated as 9.3 I would just stop watching the movie. But because of the high rating and all the fuss about it I just continued watching it. The ending was absolutely hilarious ! Common !!! a very funny twist that was predictable. But the way they presented that twist to us was hilarious ! Believe me , don't watch this movie, it is literally overrated. If there was zero rating, then this movie deserves it !
What an amazing movie.....Held me astonished for a long time.....what an acting by Tim Robbins....Best part surely was when Andy flee out that hell....Psychologically perfect.....I wonder why this movie has no Oscar....This is such a masterpiece..no one will witness for a long long time...How beautifully it expresses the life in a prison and reminds of bluffers who are way way ahead of our system of security and justice....Nevertheless, Andy is someone which probably don't exist in real life but someone you will remember for your whole life...someone whose intelligence and determination will leave you clueless..Good dialogues BTW....Hope is best of the things....Some birds are never meant to be caged,there features are just too bright for it...n many more
This movie one of the best movie in my life. This film greatest film in the history.
Even though this movie is over 10 years old, the message about friendship and not ever giving up will be relevant forever. The lessons that the main characters teach us in the face of adversity are timeless. This is also one movie that does not get old, and I have watched "Shawshank" many times. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were spectacular in their performances. They teach lessons that are extremely memorable and have quotes that you will never forget. The one quote in the film that is a stand-out is, "Get busy living, or get busy dying". Who would not feel the impact of that quote? This is one movie you have to have in your library, and I am not one that usually buys DVD's. This is a MUST SEE!!!! Don't miss this one, and also keep a box of tissues nearby.
I don't know what to say about this movie. Its brilliant masterpiece you just need to watch and feel it
Alot of people say that there is nothing wrong with sitting down and enjoying a movie. But there comes a movie that ticks all the boxes and more something that is almost impossible and should be. Every actor does his character like a champion I could see every person become a real life person never happens.
Brilliant movie. It's about friendship that develops in a prison environment.
Best movie ever ðŸ‘Œ Amazing actors they should still be getting awards for this movie.
This film is a little bit overrated, but is still one of the greatest stories EVER told, and has one of the greatest conclusions I have ever seen in a film.
I can't add very much to the previous descriptions and praise of this movie; I just want to say that it deserves its #1 standing at IMDb and I hope it holds that place forever. A brilliant film that speaks to the humanity in all of us.


Shanks for nothing. Idris Elba isnt even in this movie. No shank you, how can they for to make the movie no good good like they have?

Green mile better, lots of shanks. Next time i wanna stare at a pile of hog s$&@ ill just go to my kids band recital and stare across the crowd at my ex-wife.
Fascinating story of a banker who was wrongful imprisoned for the murder of his wife and befriends a fellow prisoner. Beautifully directed and masterful acting. I highly recommend Shawshank Redemption.
This is the second best movie ever, with only "Heat" beating it out. Stephen King is a great writer, this being the second best novella in "Different Seasons," "Apt Pupil" being the best of the four stories(I haven't seen the movie yet). Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins work well together, and Thomas Newman's original music is great. "Hope Springs Eternal."
This is an example that Hollywood CAN do a great movie that doesn't solely build on special effects.

This is also a proof that not all movies need to have more "pace" or "action". The ingredients in this movie is the interaction between two great actors, Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, a very good support cast, a superb story by Stephen King and a professional crew. This "soup" is very tasteful and gets 10/10 by me.
A story about friendship and hope. Every minute of this movie will keep you intrigued and wanting more, a movie you will never want to finish. There are two movies to me that are perfect 10's, Goodfellas and Shawshank Redemption. Enjoy.
You must see this movie. Great plot, awesome acting. I can't believe it didn't win an Oscar. It should have beaten Gump that year.
I read Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption as part of Stephen King's Different Seasons, and loved the story.. to see just how much one person can go through, and not only remain sane, but keep his morals about him, even in the purgatory of a corrupt prison. The book was incredible. But the movie took it one step further, with incredibly well chosen actors and a beautiful sense of the book that is hard to set to a movie, as well as lines that I still remember at the drop of a hat. Incredible, and one of my favorite movies of all time.
After seeing this movie for the first time I was stunned. Living in Maine i was very interested in the whole story. The prison featured in the movie is very similar to our own Thomaston State prison. This is not just a good movie, but a great story as well. It keeps you wanting to see Andy set free throughout the whole thing.
Most beautiful movie i have ever seen in my life i love morgan freeman and tim robins acting in this movie.
That's my feeling when I finished reading the novel recently. Frank Darabont obviously made a lot of major modifications. The ending scene is one of them. Forrest Gump is good. Pulp Fiction is good too. But this movie is even better. And I'm glad that I saw it in the theater, not on the videotape.
I didnt need IMDB or anything else to tell me if Shawshank is a good or bad movie. This is one of those movies you will never forget and i have watched it five or six times and everytime the film gets to me, and thats why i consider this a masterpeice. You cant get better acting then this..
What a fantastic movie! Tim Robbins gave the best performance I have ever seen by an actor and Morgan Freeman was excellent, also. There are some unbelievably moving scenes in this film. I foolishly passed it by at the theater and at the video store. When I saw it on cable for the first time, I realized it was a truly special movie. Why? I could not put my finger on it until I read the summary on the video box in the store. It really is a triumph of the human spirt with a tremendously satisfying ending. This is one of the best movies I have ever seen and it will be added to my collection this Christmas!
This movie is one of the best movies I have ever watched to date. It has everything. Humour, emotions and a great story.
Hope. The central message of "hope" in this movie is so strong and universal, it's hard for anyone not to appreciate it. One of those movies that when it's on, you have to finish watching it. If you only watch one movie this lifetime, make it this one. :)
Before watching this film,I read few quotes just to add them in my diary. Then I found the quote "Hope is a good thing may be the best of all things". I came to know that this is from the film Shawshank redemption . I started watching it. First, at the beginning,the film started with a different tone. I thought this film is going to be something about Deception,fights etc but I was wrong. It's outstanding and everyone not only film lovers but everyone likes this film. Some emotional scenes made me cry and I couldn't feel bore. I was in a journey. In journey, not to make myself feel bored, I watched this film. And after completion,I watched this again. But at last I mean the whole movie is aside a d last 45 minutes is another side. Those 45 minutes were nerve bending. The background score was awesome. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman's acting is next level. All the actors Bob gunton and others have given an incredible performance. I don't know why this one couldn't get Oscars. But one thing...if you have a watch list , edit those list by putting this at top. My sincere thanks to the Movie crew for giving this masterpiece

Best direction Best performance Best camera Best music Best cast Overall best story and script ðŸ˜ðŸ˜ðŸ˜ðŸ˜ðŸ˜ðŸ˜
A film that will motivate you in every situation......
One of the best movies ever made it was so good and i feel bad for myself that I am making a review 26 years late because i watched this movie yesterday for the first time and it's a masterpiece
This movie is horrible compared to great movies like casper. Any one reading this would be better off not watching it and instead watching spider man 3
WATCH THIS WHEN EVER, THIS IS A MUST WATCH, the story it's beautiful, the characters are great, red is the best, and the sense are amazing! 10/10! Flawless!
The Shawshank Redemption Is the greatest movie of all time!!

What makes it great:-
Beautiful Screenplay
Really Good acting
Legendary Narration By Morgan Freeman
A fantastic Story by the legendary writer 'Stephen King'(Based on the novel 'Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption'
When I first watched it, I was so amazed by how good it was.. I didn't recognise Tim Robbins in other movies but I can not imagine this movie without him.. I would say that if you haven't watched this movie once in your lifetime, You are missing out on something you should watch it now!
As the title says, this is The Greatest Movie Ever! All actors play their parts perfect, the dialog is perfect, the plot is perfect, the endning is perfect. In short a perfect Steven King Movie. A must watch.
I can't figure out how a man could think such an outrageous concept like that!Its just beneath all the beautiful thing.Thanks to Frank Drabount,Morgan Freeman,Time Robbins.Excellency is sky high in this film.Not a movie,its just a lifetime experience.Sometimes people felt to sad ,they curse themselves,regret for everything they have done in life.They crush for success,run after money.But,here is the thing that changes everything and it is indeed "The Hope".No matter how bad you feel,no matter how hard the path of the life is,the show is still goes on if you have just one thing and that is "The Hope".Life would certainly changes if peoples take the deep meaning of this wonderfully executed movie.Probably It will help many people to start their life for the second time!!Hats off to everyone who worked with the Shawshank Redemption Team..
This is a true masterpiece, the film successfully built a miniature society in prison and the way old society operates. When corrupt officials push innocent people into a sinful path, the film especially honors the strength of the protagonist's friendship and the determined determination. This is definitely a masterpiece you must watch once in a lifetime. .
This movie is the best from all the movies ever!!!!

I have a rather small film collection, but "The Shawshank Redemption" is one of the movies that is a part of it. This film is done beautifully, from the soundtrack to the acting. I'm no film critic, so I'll leave the in-depth reviews to those who are more capable, but I will say that if you haven't seen this film, make the trip to the video store.

I give it a 10.
In sixteen years, he has never given up hope in the face of countless desperate situations.Even if that hope is likely to fail.
This is a film without love and beauty, but it deeply touched my heart.Hope is good thing, and maybe the best thing of all.The hero's desire for freedom allowed him to overcome everything. When he succeeded in breaking out of prison, I cried too.
Like when we vote, for anything, we need to follow our heart. This is a typical movie that is worth every penny, every letter... and it's a typical 90' movie! Oh.. there we have it! Between gone with the wind and now, we NEED this! Love me as I am.. says the storyline, in my head anyway. This movie is one of my all time favorites. Undoubtedly, one of the most brilliant movies I have ever seen. Story, cast, screenplay all are great. The directing by Frank Darabont was just magnificent. The amazing casting of both Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins is amazing, and couldn't be more accurate. It was narrated by Morgan Freeman, who is the best narrator in Hollywood, I believe. Actually the film depends on the story and the way in which it unravels. It will change the way u think about things around u. Surely, It will teach you one thing that it is easy to take away a man's bread, even his freedom, but impossible to take away his hope.
This is quite a story, and the film does an incredible job of telling it. The acting is magnificent, and the quality of the direction makes this film a pleasure to watch. A great film for the human spirit, and the importance of freedom to our well-being. I voted 10/10 for Shawshank.
I actually does not have many things to say about this movie but,if I can say it that this movie is iconic I really meant that you know that this movie is a masterpiece.I actually want to do a review of this movie a long time ago but,I don't have time so when look at this IMDB site this movie stay one the top and I prefer it to be no 1 cause it is really an awesome movie.My rating 10/10
Look people can say that this movie is not the best ever made but I strongly disagree it makes you cry it makes you laugh and in the end you just think wow. Everyone in this movie has amazing performances Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins really show there acting chops and it is just great. I don't think anyone could watch this and say it was bad everyone's first reaction is wow. This movie holds up great and it will be many decades before there is a movie better
I LOVE the Shawshank Redemption. It gives the story of a prison inmate in his many years at an institution. This movie is so great, I cried in the middle of it! When Brooks dies has got to be the saddest moment in movie history. I cried for a good 10 minutes. He let his bird go, and he took his life. Very sad stuff. It's great how they start up a library helping the illiterate inmates. It shows some of the atrocites that inmates go through even if they are innocent. A VERY GREAT movie and probably the best of all time. I give it an A++++++.
Must watch movie..this movie give you a great message.. nd the acting was super of the Morgan Freeman..
The Shawshank Redemption is the best prison movie, with interesting characters and a fairly realistic storyline.

Other prison shows such as Oz or Prison Break tend to be ridiculously far fetched.

The storyline spans about 20 years, with great narration by Morgan Freeman.

The Shawshank Redemption has a high value to watch many times. It's worth watching for sure.
Possibly one of the best movies i've ever watched. It's about a man named Andy Dufresne who was wrongfully convicted for killing his wife and her lover. He then got sentenced to life in prison at Shawshank State Prison, where he met all these awesome people. Tim Robbins who played Andy did an amazing job of portraying the role of a well educated man, but the real MVP was Morgan Freeman who played Red or Ellis Boyd Redding, a guy who can get you things. I watched it all in one go and it has became one of my favorite movies. I'm not surprised that it got almost a full acore in ratings. Highly recommend. <3.
If you need to explain, what the hope is - just see the Shawshank Redemption... Stunning actor's play...
This movie was really well done 100% through. It is one of those films that is a classic because it is a powerful story, but it's also an intelligent film. We don't see that too much, and I hope to see more films like this! It makes me think of the essence of filmmaking and storytelling, and how much that aspect of our industry is really honored. Every Director wants to tell a great story, but few let the story tell itself. This is an intelligent film because it gets so involved with our character driven plot lines that you forget you're watching a movie at all. As a young filmmaker, this film is a fantastic model to build a foundation around. Let's just hope studio thoughts don't pick up and they try to make a sequel/prequel...
This movie is excellent. That is the best word to describe this movie. Tim Robbins was in top form as Andy who claims innocence to the criminal charge of murder and Morgan Freeman was very believable as Andy's friend, Red. I found this film to be very real yet at the same time it had a layer of magic to it. The characters were all very interesting to watch, some warm and brotherly, others frightening and souless. Even though I am female, I felt a kinship to Andy and found myself in his corner routing for him the whole time. He did not fail those of us that were watching. A definate in my personal top ten.
This is wonderful filmmaking filled with gut-wrenching emotion and drama. I do not agree that this is the 2nd greatest movie of all time. Perhaps it belongs in the top 50. This film as well as Director Frank Darabont's follow-up The Green Mile are based on Stephen King short stories and I honestly cannot say that one is better than the other. Masterful direction, acting, and storytelling. I am very, very particular about the films that I give a perfect score. I go for more thought-provoking plots rather than well-told melodramas like Titanic. This is certainly an excellent film with its triumph of the human spirit theme and I believe that it is worthy of a 9. Excellent film experience. ****1/2 / *****
I have seen this movie several times, and have noticed things I hadn't noticed on previous viewings. This is the story of a man convicted of killing his wife. I hate spoilers, so won't list anything, you just need to see this movie. I did have a couple of issues with things that happen in the movie which is why its only 8 stars/




A timeless script and acting. The masterpiece that thrives the cinema into a new era.
There a few films that I have ever felt honoured to watch, and the Shawshank Redemption is one of them. Freeman and Robbins give career-defining performances. Really, I can only say - go out and rent it now. This is a truly inspirational film
The Shawshank Redemption was story about how perseverance, hope and innocence will change a man's destiny. Tim Robbins was eloquent and portrayed a character with acting prowess of razor sharp perfection. Wrongly accused of murdering his wife, he ends up in Shawshank Maximum Security Prison, for life. Here here he befriends Red, played by Morgan Freeman ( a role he definitely deserved the Best Supporting Actor Oscar ), your typical Jack of all traits in the prison. Their story was one of trust, hope and friendship which was ultimately the forte of this movie. Robbins acting was methodical, straight-foward and deservingly captures our sympathy. A great supporting cast also gives added strength to an already perfect movie. The background music score haunts me even until today as it successfully depicts the sad, helpless and claustrophobic mood of a maximum security prison. Rich, crisp and vibrant cinematography together with Director Frank Darabont's vivid imagination and direction style brought to life one of the greatest motion picture ever told! 10/10
I have seen this movie twice and even the second time it was still a very special movie although you know what is going to happen...Big compliment for writer Stephen King! (I am wondering if it really happend, although it is too good to be true). Wonderfull acting, great story...with emotional moments but not overdone in any way. My favorite scene is when Andy receives the old books and records (big black CD's from the old days:-) and plays a part from a opera through the prison intercom! If you do have the chance: watch it!

The story as a whole is incredibly done, everything from the camera work to the choice of words used. I also love how each character is so unique and well developed. So many small adjustments are made throughout the film, to the characters make up for example, which makes this such a well finished film. I highly recommend this to anyone who wants a brilliant film. 10/10. (side note, this is my only 10/10 film)

It is an emotional and thrilling film which has many plot twists. I feel like this is one of the greatest movies every made, and i have many good reasons to think this.

-Sean
Shawshank Redemption is a compelling, moving, and beautiful story which is darkly funny at times. This movie's #2 spot on IMDB is debatable, since it is essentially a formulaic Hollywood story with Hollywood characters... i.e. evil institution (guards) and noble rebels ("some" prisoners) within a microcosm (prison). Andy Dufresne is so incredibly friggin' smart (for a banker) that is almost super-hero like. Though this is definitely a worthy film, in terms of sheer greatness, Shawshank missed Cool Hand Luke by *this much*... If you want a really top-of-the-line awesome prison movie, Cool Hand Luke is the one to see.
Maybe the highest rated prison movie ever... that represents a term that's a bit overused called 'Freedom'. The thing that we sure need in every moment, when someone is takin' it away we always feel it, but here is so direct and sensetive, so we can sense so much empathy for the unlucky bankar, who lost his wife and freedom in so short period. The whole cast, i won't comment.. everyone did a marvelous job. And there's happy ending for a reason a think, 'cause hope is never a thing to give up, if u give up hope, u will get Institutionalized, and quickly when out of prison u have nothing to live for, it definitly gets deep into the prisoners mind, so it will stay as one of the films i always love to watch now and than, definitly a classic.

The Shawshank Redemption in my opinion is the best movie out there. No other movie will show you such a thought provoking, well made, extraordinary acted, brilliant script than this film!

A story of hope and redemption seems clichÃ© and maybe even boring but this tale will never bore you. You'll fall in love with the characters. Morgan Freeman is again at his best, and Tim Robbins gives one of his best performances next to his in Mystic River. You can watch this movie over and over again and you'll still love it and it will feel like your first time seeing it. The movie is filled with passion that it will make you cry (coming from someone who never cries), it's soulful and emotional yet still gives you action. It's a rare gem that you'll fall in love with, I definitely did!
One of my favorite movies of all time. Powerful,thought-provoking and finally irresistibly uplifting. Thanks to quietly dignified performances and Darabont's own inventive direction, The Shawshank Redemption remains a first class example of how to approach potentially weighty issues with conviction, style, lightness and wit. Shawshank is one of those rare movies that defines the whole reason I love films. It tells a fantastic story, masterfully written, acted, and directed. You can't help but become emotionally invested in the characters and story, and because of that, the film leaves you emotionally drained by the film's end, but still with a sense of hope.
Has to undoubtedly be one of the best movies of all time. Casting, acting, plot, cinematography, musical score. Everyone should see this movie to know what a good movie is. The plot twist at the very end was in itself a work of art. 10/10.
Everyone should watch it. Especially students and upcoming artists.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest movies of the 90's era, it's a must see in my book. Movie Goers of every generation will love to see Andy sail off into the sunset.

Direction,writing,cinematography everything about this movie is extraordinary....and what can we say about the actors...both tim robbin and morgan freeman delivered the best performances of their career...
There is a good reason why this movie is the highest rated film on IMDb. While watching this, I felt for the characters' pain and suffering, their happiness and cheers. The music and storytelling are amazing. Props to the director for turning this Stephen King story into a masterpiece.
Truly deserves the top rated movie. Definitely Must watch
Great great movie! I wasnt expecting to be so good despite the reviews. It is so obvious prison break copied many ideas from this movie. But Forrest Gump for me is probably the best movie, no wonder it won oscar for best picture in 1994. Im quite sure this movie could had won one oscar for best picture if it was released in another year.

Remember Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies.


Exciting story, cool story, my family loves it all. We watched it several times. Really this is a highlight, the excitement in the movie passes us. Differential that marked the film, and brought a unique characteristic. Its direction, its actors, its actresses, really marks generations, and will pass through generation to generation.
First of all you need to be prepared for this 3 hour long movie(though the movie worths it).Morgan freeman's background voice will keep you with the story.Dialogues were well executed.The strongest part was it's narration which makes it the best.I wouldn't have watched this if it wasn't on the top of IMDb list.At some point of time i felt the movie is just dragging on the story.Still at the end you won't mind it.

The movie also carries the message of friendship,hope,will and brilliance of our protagonist.Sometimes i felt pity on him and sometimes i couldn't stop myself praising his brilliance.

I think this movie will keep impressing generations ahead,no matter how much advance human becomes.

This movie gives you insipiration and motivates you, that you're able to accomplish anything in life by putting your mind to it, the story-line in this movie is fantastic, very entertaining and can be watched over and over again, deserves the title 'Greatest movie of all time', and nothing is able to beat it's reviews and ratings yet. 10/10 - Iky
So this was quite a film, quite an experience I'll say; this movie told me to do my absolute best and I guess that's all there is to it. (I don't really know why other people like it but I like it)
The Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt one of the most brilliant movies I have ever seen.What makes this film one of the best ever made is the message it conveys.

It is one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins, has been sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he never loses hope. He never gives up his quest to become a free man again. His years of tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane, but it gives his mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a different feel to it. There has never been anything like it before and I don't know if there will again.

The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.
One of the best jail/prison movies ever created. This movie changed my life.
Got me right in the feels. Was speechless after watching, so breathtaking in every way
Absolutely incredible. It truly is sad that this movie did not win best picture because it is one of the finest ever made. Morgan Freeman at his best and Tim Robbins is perfect. This movie sucks you in and never lets you go. A movie you can watch over and over.
Ur Mind Goona Sucks You Can't Believe What happened to You
I first saw it in 2016 and since then this movie has become an important part of my life. It teaches multiple theories of how to be a strong figure doesn't matter how worst our life has become. I highly recommend you this movie.this movie will always stay closer to my heart..
Too overrated. The only thing going on is: he tried to escape prison. And then what?

Such a gripping story -- innocent people do get locked up, 'ya know -- and it's so very sad... I loved the end of the movie. Very realistic, I'm afraid -- I pray it makes criminals think twice before thinking that prison is tolerable - and I wish our criminal justice system would wake up and make some corrections. People need rehabilitation, not torture.
Best Ever Made

The credit goes to director on shaping the movie in such an interesting way and the ending of the movie is arguably among one of the very bests. One might feel the movie is a bit slow at times, but you are always into the plot which brings on new surprises consistently.
...movie and like another of my favorites, "Fried Green Tomatoes," one that I could see over and over again and still find something new to appreciate. This is a jewel of a movie and one that I'm sorry didn't receive the recognition it so richly deserved. James Whitmore should at least have been nominated for Best Supporting Actor; that he didn't is a disgrace. Morgan Freeman gives his usual awesome performance. Rent this movie! Then a few months later, rent it again. This movie is so poignant and says so much about friendship and hope that I defy anyone not to be moved by it.
I'm kind of lost for words for this movie. I saw it last night on my DVD-player and what I saw was brilliance. The story is about a banker Andy (Tim Robbins) who get prisoned for murdering his wife and her secret lover. In prison he says he's innocent, which makes the other inmates break out in laughter. No one is innocent in prison they say. `They've all been f***ed by lawyers.' What follows is a fight for justice. A inmate (George Freeman) who calls himself Red (the other inmates call him that because he's `irish') finds something special in Andy. They connect soon and becomes good friends. What strikes me about the main characters is that hope and belief is something that they always have. Even though they go through some very tough times in prison, they always have that good confidence in themselves. Go see this movie, if you love the concept of feeling free. There's no let downs or grief ending this movie. You have to see it for yourself.
Tim forehead robbins does a classic job as a hot shot banker who was wrongfully accused. in this crusade robbins and "Red" morg freeman become good buds and with william sadlers upraving comedic factor the movie simply goes down as one of the greatest philms of all time. frank darabonts finest film and bub gunton plays a great role as the warden.
This is by far and away the best movie I have ever seen. If you haven't seen it, do so. (If you don't know the movies outcome, definately see it!).

Everything about this movie is outstanding. What most people notice first about great movies is the fine acting. Not only is this film's acting superb, but the script, the costumes, the scenery, the directing...everything...just outstanding. Rent it for the first time...rent it again...I recently sat through TNT's double presentation, and it still had me totally absorbed, even the second time around.

Some movies really need more than 2 hours to develop their story. I think "The Shawshank Redemption" would have been more successful if it was not so long. The story is truly excellent...moving, intense, and joyous at the same time. I think it could have been improved by editing out a few scenes which were redundant to the purpose of the mood they were establishing.
It's fun to watch this movie a second time and pick up some things you never noticed the first time. So many things simply went unnoticed (Andy writing into the wall, his little geology tool, the "sex symbols throughout the decades" posters) and suddenly wind together to grab our attention and make this a wonderful movie. The film was fascinating in the fact that it showed us how "lifers" could only witness the change of culture in the outside world by observing the prisoners that come and go over the years, and this being the only glimpse on how the world is changing, they become institutionalized, and actually fear their freedom. I actually found myself feeling sorry for murderers, and I debated with myself on whether or not they should be released if they truly become rehabilitated. The determination and hope transpired by Andy brought our hopes up: Most movies bring our hopes up only to bring them down, but when we see him running through the pond and standing in the rain with his arms raised and the great music accompanying the scene, our hopes our fulfilled. This is one of only about three or four films that had great smarts and left me completely satisfied. 10/10.
The Shawshank Redemption is the type of film which has divided its audience into two categories: those who loved it, and those who don't care for it. There is rarely anything between. Flawless acting, passionate direction, and a memorable score have made the film a powerful cinematic experience, and at times, it can be thought provoking. It never lacks in pace, there is always a steady rhythm to the film. The Shawshank Redemption is a modern masterpiece.

Rating: 10

I won't go into all the good things about the movie, since pretty much all of the other posts do, I'll just say I agree. There was only one thing wrong with it. Are we supposed to believe that in a prison in 1948, a black guy was best buds with a bunch of white guys? Oh well, this was made when it wasn't politically correct to have a movie with an all white cast. If you can get past that one flaw, this movie is a 10. If you can't, the movie is still an 8 or 9.

If you're depressed, this is an excellent movie to watch. It focuses on when life has really beaten you down. No matter what happens to him, he tries to get the best of the situation.
I'll watch this any time I see that it's on TV. Doesn't matter if it's 5 minutes in or halfway through. As soon as I've watched one scene I'm sucked in and will watch it right to the end.

There's something mesmerising about it. The visuals, the soundtrack and voiceover combined with a great story and characters make it.

I still remember the first time I saw it on an old VHS of my parents and was blown away.

A must see film for everyone.
I can't tell you how everything about this movie is just perfect.Best movie of all time
An Inspiring story that teaches us all the lessons of life on all levels of everyday living. You think about JC everytime you watch this and the different lessons from the bible which this film instills in all of us. To reach such a level as all of these character is truly what all of mankind tries to attain. An amazing film!!
If fate is unfair to you, don't compromise, fate is in your own hands.
When I saw Shawshank's redemption, I realized all of this. There is absolutely no fun in life in prison. It is even more hopeless, and it is more difficult to find hope in despair. People always say not to fight against fate, but when Andy defeats fate, we can also say that this victory is just part of fate.
I have see its movie many times. so addicted A wonderful movie!
Nice movie :-) The story is about escaping from jail
This is the best film I have ever seen. Always it will be in my heart.
This the movie with full climax and i loved the movie after my O level it means you need an anticipation power to judge the movie. The wonderful movie of the era
A true transcendence of common ground between prisoner and inmate can be found within this movie. What makes a good person, does it really depend on which side of the bars you live that makes you a good person or bad person. This movie answers that inevitable question.
This is one of those movies I just have to watch when it's on. The story and script is awesome. This is how all movies should be made.
I see like 1400 people rated this movie a 1 out of 10. Please, if you are one of these people, email me so we can talk, and so i can ultimately rip your soul apart and see what it is like to be non-human. As far as the movie goes, im sure not many people have seen it, if you havent, please do so, you wont be sorry.
The storyline was simply marvelous. The creation and sequencing of the scenes were also great. The acting of Morgan Freeman was really awesome and close to reality. Besides it changed the view of the world about how to see life without breaking down in any cruel situation.
One of the greats. Loved every second of it, so many emotions packed into one film. Can definitely see the reason as to why it's the highest rated film on this app!
Subtle and wonderful story. Excellent acting, A tribute to humanity, struggle and tenacity.
Ever since I was a kid, I have enjoyed this movie. I hope it never goes away!


This movie is very good. When i heard about the story from one of my friend i thought that it will be not nice movie to watch for me . But i watched . I have no complaints about this movie. I hope you will also not have any complaints if you watch..
This movie is one of the best dramas that I have ever seen. The movie follows the life of a hot shot banker who is convicted for the murder of his wife and her lover. He proclaims throughout the movie that he is innocent however. As the movie progresses we see things inside this prison that we hope never really happens. There are incidents of brutality, graft, and even murder. The guards of the prison use the main character, Andy Dufresne, talent as a banker to do their tax returns and the warden uses him to make a fortune. Andy said it best when he said, "The funny thing is - on the outside, I was an honest man, straight as an arrow. I had to come to prison to be a crook." Everything was different inside the prison. This movie shows that no matter what the conditions are they can never completely break someone's spirit which is shown by this movie's happy ending.
Wow, this film touches a very deep and unmarked part of my soul that I never knew existed.

I feel my soul just flipping inside out and puckering throughout the struggles of the multitude of characters.

If art is supposed to reach out and touch you, then this by far is the pinnacle of the motion pictures.
An amazing movie to watch if you have some time. 10/10.

Overrated Cat in the hat is 10x better than this movie Painfully boring no funny cat with a hat You could give me a million dollars to say this is better than cat in the hat but I wouldnt accept your offer If you gave this movie a 10 go and give Cat in the hat 100/10
I enjoy this movie and have seen it multiple times. My only issue with the movie is that the character, Red (Morgan Freeman) is not accurate for the time period of the movie. I seriously doubt that Red because of his race would be such a leader of all inmates in the 1940's. And, the "go to" inmate for buying items? I doubt it. Some strong willed white inmate would have corned that market. He might have been a leader of the African Americans in the prison, but not the whites. Now before that starts some race debate about the topic, I only am pointing out how the times were in the 1940's, 50's, etc.

My issue with that topic is that I think we should accurately portray society as it was no matter how ugly it was, not as we wish it had been.
Shawshank is simply perfection. Hardly a flaw in its technical execution, and virtually every onscreen performance is brilliant. One of the greatest films ever made & what moviemaking is all about.
Can Hollywood, usually creating things for entertainment purposes only, create art? To create something of this nature, a director must approach it in a most meticulous manner, due to the delicacy of the process.


TOP MOVIE, BEST MOVIE EVER MADE. They don't make movies like this one anymore. it's kinda sad.
oh,this is really a very good one i've ever seen.Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies.remember?from the movie,u can get that.if u never see it,go ahead now,or u will regret,i am sure.but to my disappoint,it doesn't get any awards. and when the old man left the prison,he found he was not able to touch the world,really hard for him to do that,and in the end he rather die.it truely shows many prisoner's feelings.i was deeply moved. and this is the one shows the humanity,u should watch it!


This is a film that is heavy on character and dialogue and delivers on both. The performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are outstanding, as are each of the supporting actors. This film was adapted from a short story, 'Rita Hayworth and The Shawshank Redemption,' written by Stephen King. Perhaps it is because it's adapted from a short story as to why this works so well as there are only minor changes and nothing essential is left out, leaving the film makers with the ability to strengthen and stretch out the main focus, which is the bond created by the two main characters. In my personal opinion I would say this film is one of the most successful book to script adaptations in film history. The direction is brilliant in the way it is almost not noticeable as it relies on the actors and their interactions with each other to keep the audience interested. Cinematography is worth a mention also as each shot is captured beautifully. In summary, Shawshank is a must see and a well deserved film classic.

See it over and over again! Another one I watch every time it's on.
I've been meaning to see this movie for several years now, having heard all the hype and comments rating this as one of the best films of all time. It certainly wasn't disappointing- despite the relatively slow pace compared to most brainless blockbusters of today and tendency towards sentimentality that crept up from time to time. It certainly wasn't one of the greatest of all films, in my opinion, either; simply an intriguing story, with something to teach us, perhaps, very well told and very well acted. It's probably a movie I'd watch again, though not straight away, as it is quite slow paced, and, just towards the end, I felt it was getting a little too drawn out. But it's very good to look at, there are some great performances, a nice musical score from Thomas Newman, and a great plot, with a wonderful twist at the end. So, overall this is a very good movie and one I would recommend.

8/10
This is... brilliant. I'm no film expert, and I don't pretend to be, but... this movie is just brilliant. It humanizes prisoners. It tells an interesting story while having plenty of artistic value. And I can appreciate that.

This is the one movie i watch, to get up if i'm sad or depressed. It's certainly the best movie i've ever watched.

I think every good words that can be said about this movie already is said in the reviews here.

Highly recommend everyone to watch this.
There is a reason this is rated so high, watch it for yourself!
A wonderfully made movie. The best thing about movie is it never looses its pace. Neither it gets fast nor it gets slow... Rightly placed at #2 on IMDb.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman makes a great pair in the movie. Villain, Bob Gluton, the Jailer performs his role very well. "Hope is good thing, probably one of the best thing, and no good thing ever dies" is the central theme of the movie according to me.

Calm, Placid banker Andrew Dufresene lives his life with hope without loosing his temper. and that's the movie is all about. Frank Darabont did an amazing job adapting from Stephen King's short story, and he deserves as much praise for it as possible. Nobody, not even my favourite writers such as the Coen brothers of Quentin Tarantino (partly for the fact that the first only writes comedies and the latter only fares in blood spatter) could have achieved this amazing script, which completely uplifts and spellbinds the viewer.
Just watch it. In fact. You will probably want to watch it again and again
One of those very rare movies, that even though you may have it on DVD or tape, you'll still stop and watch the WHOLE movie to the very end if you find it playing while 'channel surfing'. I, like everyone else I know, found out about this movie from someone else; I did not see this at the movies. So, I rented it and was (like everyone else apparently) blown away by this true cinematic masterpiece. Over the past ten years my wife and I have probably seen the movie a couple of dozen times each. If someone out there needs a 'pick-me-up' movie' (we ALL do sometimes!), then this is YOUR movie. It's always guaranteed to always remind one that "Hope is a Good Thing...."
This movie has everything the story lines are just so unique and unpredictable yet so easy to follow, i have seen this movie many times and no matter where i start it from i know exactly what has happened and what is happening it is just so simple. the casting couldn't be any more perfect and freeman's character RED is the best, but the truth is all the cast have don't a great job at bringing the characters to life and the production and directing of this movie is second to non if i had to recommend any movie to anyone this would be it the whole thing just oozes perfection. there is little wonder why it has made its way despite its age to the top of the IMDb top movies list and there is no mistaking its brilliance the writers have done a amazing job there is little words to describe the movie except perfection. this movie gets 10 out of ten from me every time and i mean every time i see it it amazes me on how brilliant the movie is.
Frank Darabont did an execellent adaption, beutiful story showing the real live.
I made my mind to watch this movie in 2012 as most of users recommended on IMDb. I always wonder what could be one thing that makes Shawshank legend of Hollywood movies. I found my favorite actor of lifetime after watching it: Morgan Freeman. Every single thing in the movie is 10/10. Story of Stephen King, screenplay, dialog, drama, suspense, crime and action. The baritone of Freeman moves whenever you hear him. I never gets tired watching it again and again, it is that kind of picture. I still sit back in ave and can't help myself from watching it again and again. Thanks to strong direction and support staff, this makes to top my list all-time.

This movie is one of the best and I think it deserves to be ranked first on the site.

The BEST i like it cast and scenario its amazing i love it
I've seen The Shawshank Redemption many times, including being one of the few people who saw it in theaters when it came out. I'm a big fan of Stephen King and was well aware of the story, one of four novellas in King's "Different Seasons" collection. I consider it to be one of King's best works. I watched the movie again today for I don't know, maybe the tenth time. It's firmly lodged in my all-time top 20 and it seems to me to be an almost perfect film. Terrific screenplay adaptation of the story, stupendous performances from respected Academy Award-winning actors (Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were never better), and brilliant direction from Frank Darabont make this classic one of the most respected films of the last thirty years. Tough to watch at times, but worth every second. I can't recommend this film strongly enough. It should not be missed by anyone who loves cinema.
I can understand why it is one of the highest praised movies of all time because it is one of the best movies of all time. Great cast with amazing chemistry throughout the whole movie. Really well acted and a fantastic story line keeps you into this movie the whole time you watch it. It is one of those feel good stories that you have to like even if you don't like these types of movies. And this movie has one of the best endings in cinema history so this is a definite must watch. Don't deprive yourself of the pleasure of watching such a stellar movie. Go now and watch this movie if you have never seen it. Needless to say an all time great. One of the few movies you can watch over and over. The acting in incredible, the story is captivating and engaging, and every actor comes through in a big way. A truly wonderful movie. If you have not seen it, you will not be disappointed when you do.
This is a must watch movie in every once life,love it.. the reviews which are ahead are as good as the movie... every frame in the movie has its meaning. one can think easily that even though movie came on to the screen two decades earlier it is still no:1 in its position i personally created this account to give my rating and write a review on such a wonderful film. i felt very happy after watching this film and i thought of sharing with you. finally i want to say that "entertainment is there ever corner of our life. but meaning of the true life lies with in this movie". this movie give a valuable message "if we want a thing really & actually from the heart then every force on this earth will try to help us..but the only thing we have to do is never loose HOPE"

Frank Darabont has created a masterpiece with this film.

The entire film is based upon the principle of institutionalisation, with Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman playing two prisoners who over many years become good friends.

From start to finish the film is gripping, moving and inspiring.

I am 24 and I usually love loud action movies etc. However you can't beat films like this and I have to admit (cue clichÃ©) they just don't make films like this anymore.

This is my favourite film and I would recommend this to anyone who has not seen it yet to put it top of their watchlist.
This movie is perfect in construction, with just the right amount of feel-goodiness added but not so much as to make one wretch. A portrait of the strength of the human spirit, and the awesome power of hope. I love the feeling of hope that this movie inspires in the viewer. I haven't met anyone who doesn't love it (still awaiting the DVD's return as I lent it to a friend about 4 months ago!) The only negative comment I've ever heard about it is the ending. Some die-hards think the movie should end with Red in the coach on his way to find Andy, but not show their meeting on the beach as its too corny. I disagree. I think that after the whole battle to escape, and wondering if they will etc, people needed the closure that seeing them meet offered. If they'd hugged and cried that would have been too much for me, but it was done perfectly. With Red, casually strolling down the beach towards Andy and starting to laugh. I'm getting goose-bumps just thinking about it now.

My favourite movie.
From a purely emotional standpoint, this is quite simply the best film ever made; epic in scope, travelling as it does over many decades of our hero's lives, it does not disappoint in any area. The two films I return to again and again are this and Blade Runner, and despite their obvious differences, both films share many characteristics: sweeping score, wildly atmospheric, fantastic individual performances and both have aged beautifully. A resounding, joyful, 10 out of 10 to this phenomenal film.
Phenomenal cinematography, great score, fantastic acting, all in the hands of talented filmmaker Frank Darabont, based on one of the greatest novels by revered writer Stephen King.

Completely deserving of a 10/10 rating, and deserves its #1 spot on IMDb.
I don't have words to describe this precious gift given to humanity. This is more than just a movie having some divine touch. Sixth time I saw this in a dream. Every other movie seems vapid. The best a human can create. Every time I watch this movie, I get something new. This is the reason I made my IMDb account. Love you Shawshank Redemption ðŸ˜˜
The idea of this film is to convey the state of solitude that man is, it's like the myth of Sisyphus which the Greeks and then Camus highlighted in his works. I must say that the character Andy Dufresne develops patience achievement, because with patience and look for the right time, the freedom that comes slowly after years in his master plan is won.

Such feelings which we know must bend to make the right decisions and it is there that this film achieves an impeccable staging, making paraphrase of life itself.

Speaks also of how one should live their best under the conditions, and evidently speaks about sacrifice because often we lose our status quo to achieve a goal or purpose.

In conclusion, it is a poetic film a delicacy of philosophical study of easy digestion.
Best drama movie with suspense. Started watching English movies because of this movie.


It is hard to describe what makes Shawshank Redemption so good. It is a good movie on a lot of singular areas, but the pieces are put together in a way that makes it even more. A perfect expression of human nature's good and bad, and how fragile life seems to be.
The best movie i have ever seen.. touching story...

Awe-inspirting story, wonderful performances. Simply astonishing. Persistence, patience, hope, tolerance and creativity, if well combined can really set you free.
I liked this film very much...until the end. I thought, "NO! Please don't give us a fairytale ending!" For me, the film should have ended after Red found what Andy had left for him, or maybe showing him on his way to be reunited with Andy. The scene on the beach was out of character with the rest of the film, even though Andy had talked about it earlier. And HE IS WORKING ON SOME PIECE OF SH*T BOAT IN THE MIDDLE OF NOWHERE?! HOW did it get there? I thought, "WHY such an ending to what up to now had been a great film? So I was very relieved when I discovered that Frank Darabont wanted a different ending, and it was the studio wanted it that way (how many times has THAT happened in the history of Hollywood -- f*cking up a good thing).
It touched my heart it fullfilled my heart with all type of emotions you can find sadness anger depressing happiness excitement it is very directed with perfectism with proper editing screenplay and music is what makes this movie special .It brilliantly potrays the idea power of hope this all movie is about hope if you are a prisoner only hope will save you so you damn have hope in you.The dialougesbetween main characters is special seeing their bond grow break again grow by meeting a friend after long time with consent of hope if you watch this movie carefully you will find this movie 's power on your mind. As Andy Dufrene said __ fear can hold you prisoner but hope can set you free..............
This movie is great. A complete masterpiece, the players are carefully selected and deserves the first place. Especially when the film-in heads have a normal turn, especially the last half hour. Everyone has to watch before they die.

I can not think of anyone else in this role in Tom Hanks.Morgan Freeman In seems to be a little passive, but the director could not use it effectively. There is little action in the film, but this lack is closed with its own mystery and fluency.
The flop on the box office that this movie had taught me to pay less attention to the money when judging movies. This story teaches us about the possibility of redemption, the importance of our moral character and, most importantly, hope (Â«always a good thingÂ»). With monstrously perfect acting and narration from Morgan Freeman, this movie crushes a lot of preconceptions and forces the viewer to think about matters we like not to think about: the flaws of the judicial system, the reality of prisional institutions, inmate rehabilitation/humanization and the suffering of inocents who get wrongfully locked up. Out right top 5 best movies all-time
10 stars for Hope....that's what this movie teaches you about. Keep believe in yourself and hope for the best.Time is the cure of all problem. one of my favorite movies of all time. Morgan Freeman @his best. Would love to see this movie over and over again million times.Best screenplay and performance.That's why this movie is @1st spot on IMDb top250.
If you want to make a great film, follow the example of Frank Darabont. Every element is beautiful here. No More Any Words! Make sure of this yourself, and you will see all the amazing work done by the entire crew!

9.4 out of 10
Well I think The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best movie but not the best and in my opinion The Lord of the Ring series are the best movies that I have ever seen
The Shawshank Redemption is to movie history what Muhammad Ali was for boxing, GOAT!

Yeah, I get it, some people mention the cheesy end but how could it end any different? 2 1/2 hours to then watch Andy pass away? Come on.

Perfect movie, perfect actors, just PERFECT!
Such a powerful and special movie, that tells a story about 'hope' & friendship unlike any other! This is definitely a must see movie for everyone! One of the greatest films ever made!
This film is filled with all kinds of emotions. No doubt this is simply a masterpiece. The movie has shown what a knowledgeable man can do. Definately made me a better person within.
If you havent seen this movie you honestly need too. I am 20 Years Old and i just got around to seeing this movie last night. Obviously i was born after this movie was released and i am very sceptical about older movies but i decided to give it a watch....needless to say i will probably rewatch this movie tonight at midnight. This was one of the greatest movies i have ever seen. Everything from the opening scene to the ending scene was incredible. Just another staple and gem to add to the morgan freeman collection. If i could rate this higher than a 10 i most likely would have. This was a fantastic movie
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont, based on the 1982 Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. It tells the story of banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who is sentenced to life in Shawshank State Penitentiary for the murders of his wife and her lover, despite his claims of innocence. Over the following two decades, he befriends a fellow prisoner, contraband smuggler Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), and becomes instrumental in a money-laundering operation led by the prison warden Samuel Norton (Bob Gunton). William Sadler, Clancy Brown, Gil Bellows, and James Whitmore appear in supporting roles.
I'm not exaggerating it when I say this is the most amazing thing I have ever been exposed to. The Shawshank Redemption is a moving, deeply emotional drama faithfully adapted from the equally brilliant novella by Stephen King. It would probably take all my strength to not punch someone in the face for saying anything against this film.
All the drama of a falling rock. If SK lived in the Victorian Age this would be a morality play--and both would be dead and forgotten by now--just the idea of it makes me want to live another 100 years or so.
Testtesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttesttest testtesttesttesttesttesttest
TestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTestTest
No other film has uplifted me more then the end of this movie, its a movie everyone should see at least once in there lives. The way this film explores its themes: hope, redemption, grief ets, it does so incredibly well. The characters are very memorable, the performances are all great, the music is perfect in the way it's used, it hits all the right emotions where it needs too. If you are feeling down, I'd recommend this, the ending is one of my favourites. Hardly anyone at all dislikes this film, I've yet to meet that person.
The Shawshank Redemption served as a message of hope to Hollywood as well. More than any film in memory, it proved there is life after box office. This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared it long lost in a dark sea of clichÃ©s and predictability. 10/10
I can watch this over and over. The cast, the writing, directing, the story is spot on. I loved the ending. Never gets boring or old, full of emotion. Excellent movie.
Took me 20 years to realize he was guilty. And four times to watch. And couple king movies. Duphrenes killed his wife and lover.
The Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt the greatest film that had ever been made I have viewed it multiple times over the years and it never gets old. It is the story of a man imprisoned for a crime he did not commit, and then he must try with all he can to escape from there. It is a story we've seen or heard a thousand times. It is nothing new. And that is the beauty of it. We think we're here to see the same old story yet again, however, it will shock and surprise you as it unfolds. It is a story of brotherhood behind bars, of an unlikely friendship that last a lifetime, and, of redemption.
Few films capture the triumph of the human spirit the way that The Shawshank Redemption did. Not only was it an original true-to-life story, it added a touch of comedy and a heart-warming story of friendship. At first, I expected little from this movie (granted I was 12), but it has quickly grown into my very favorite movie of all time; and it competes with Schindler's List and GoodFellas for the best movie of the decade. As the 90's come to an end, we see a familiar theme in cinema: destruction and armageddon (literally); it is good to see a reversal in a beautiful film from promising young talent (Darabont).
I really enjoyed this movie. There was obviously a lot of thought put into the script and it delivers brilliantly. The directing is also wonderful, and the actors fit the part perfectly. This is a gruesome account of prison life in the 1950's-60's that is very violent, although this was necessary in the film. A very good movie, and a must-see!
This film is a beautiful story about what faith and hope and passion are about. The struggle between the desire for something more and the resignation about your lot in life. On many levels this film challenges you to both seize the day and overcome fear and limitations about yourself. All without a preach-y tone or a moralistic attitude and with lots of interesting characters and action. This movie also offers insight into the truth that can be found in a real friendship.

I highly recommend this movie to anyone.
This movie captures many of things that made us love movies in the first place! It is a movie that contains many beautiful messages about life in general and how we should always be grateful for what we have, it's about friendship, it's about dedication and determination! It teaches that we can find beauty in the most difficult situations and places. I rated this movie 10/10 because I seriously couldn't find any flaw, the direction, script, acting, production values, and acting. What I like about this movie is that's all about humans, it's about the simple human needs that we seek, freedom, love, respect, power, friendship, health, fairness and justice. This movie is great because it can reach to any human being regardless of their background or history or preference, it will touch you so deep!
I remembered reading Stephen King's original short story many moons before I saw the screen translation, but I'm very thankful that I couldn't remember the twist towards the end. The discovery as to what Andy's posters were REALLY used for totally changes the feel of the film, and I defy anyone to be unmoved.

This is easily the best King screen adaption, and is hardly likely to be bettered. It really is excellent, and it's hard to know what to praise it for most, but it's perhaps the only film I've ever seen that made my heart soar at the fate of it's main characters as if they were real people.

As I write this, The Shawshank Redemption has been voted the #1 film on IMDB, which is a very pleasing surprise as it really is deserved.
In one word: Magnificent! This movie is a masterpiece! It soaks you up and it leaves you behind feeling hopeful for ways which at first didn't seem to be there.. a really fantastic movie you definitely should see! Morgan Freeman, once again, showing how much of a big actor he is! *thumbsup to the cast & crew*
I happened to see this film on TV not too long ago. My husband was watching so I thought I would sit down and watch. I was absolutely blown away by this film Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were super!! It was well acted well edited. This is one of the most outstanding movies I have seen in recent years.

I purchased the video and have watched numerous times. The conclusion of this film had me on the edge of my seat. JUST OUTSTANDING!

It is tough to summarize the true power of this truly great film. It was moving, thought-provoking, and powerful. It was truly robbed of the 1994 Best picture, just because Forrest Gump was more succesful in theatres. Shawshank was much deeper, and i was a great injustice. Shawshank chronicled the relationship between two jailed inmate through the 40's, 50's and 60's. It was a film about how no matter how hard a man is broken, beaten down, and crushed emoionally he still can keep hope. I truly loved this film and it grows better with each viewing. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman gave great performances in this film. Frank Darabot had great direction over this film, and Stephen King's short story was great. This is a must see for anyone. Like I said before this is in my opinion the greatest fim ever made.
This film was honestly able to make me laugh, and cry. It moved me from start to finish. I have seen several films in my lifetime, and I have given this film the distinct honor of my favorite, and the best film of all time. It shows the character development and friendship between inmates of several years. Everyone should see this film, because It is incredible. The scene where they are drinking beers never fails to make me cry or at least get teary-eyed.
The movie is literally pretty. Both Calm and emotional was the movie. This movie deserved definitely deserved nine score my opinion. What are you doing HERE? Watch the movie.
When this movie first cam eout, I didn't know much about it, my mother, who had seen it, had mentioned something about it being "very good" amd a "prison movie." I managed to catch it abotu a year later on the Movie Channel, I have to tell you, I sat in awed silence for the next two hours.

Shawshank Redemption isn't just a movie about a bunch of guys in a prison, it's a movie about hope, friendship, and "coming through clean in the end." The film is slightly over two hours long, and involving an amazing cast of well acted characters, amazing aerial shots, a wonderful score of music, and inspiration, and the ability to find strength in yourself, that maybe you didnt' know was there. It was a shame this film came out the same year as Forrest Gump, this deserved every award it was nominated for, I highly recommend to anyone to see this film, because it is among one of the best i've ever seen.

I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.
After reading reviews countlessly recommending the reader to watch this film if they hadn't already I decided to dedicate some time and money to get the film on blu-ray and sit down with some food and drink and prepare to admire a so called "masterpiece". I wasn't disappointed....a lot.

The film grips you from the beginning, the story line promising, good actors being introduced right left and center, however the film has its moments where some sub plots make you lose interest, I found myself drifting off into a day dream a couple of times throughout the film. However then it got back on track sensing a great finale which it delivered.

I still thoroughly enjoyed the film and believe 8/10 is justified, it is by no means perfect and by no means the best, but it is up there and I do recommend it.
One of the few movies that most who watch it could rate a 10/10! Embodies what a cinematic experience should be and to describe it in one word: Hope. Extra:Morgan Freeman's narration adds to this movie on an cosmic level.
This is storytelling done right.

Character development, performances and plot line all supercede any film ever made.

The plot twist at the end will always go down in history as one of the greatest reveals of all time. Hearing that piece fall through the "Hollow" - amazing.
It's just sweet, classic and one of the best movies ever... that's all I can say About out this...
This is one of the best motivational movie ever. Do give it a try.
We are bound by all kinds of rules and regulations. In fact, the meaning of survival is to seek real freedom. Of course, it is also freedom under the condition of restriction. No matter at any time, you should not give up your previous commitment to yourself. Although there will be many obstacles, there will be obstacles from themselves and others. But none of this can be a reason for our retreat.
This movie is an ode about perseverance and hope.

I recommend this movie for every people
It is so good. Andy, Red, Heywood, Brooks, Jake, Warden. Nuff Said
Hope, endurance, and unconditional friendship are core themes of the film. Corruption, manipulation, and betrayal are also present, but they're shown to fail in the end. The problem of "institutionalization" is shown and discussed -- a prison inmate has spent so much time in prison, he has forgotten how to live outside the prison walls. Integrity and perseverance are major themes.
This is easily one of the greatest movies ever made. The acting, the storytelling, the quotes, the direction, etc... If you haven't seen this movie yet-you should.
I can't put into words how great this movie is, this is probably the greatest movie of all time.
Just loved this movie more n more, everytime I watch this...when there is hope there is life...so meaningfully deliver the message of patience and hope....
A very good movie which leaves your jaw open at the end of it. This film gives you a very good idea or a teaching of life where it tells you to go ahead in life, no matter what happens to you or through which condition you pass. You need to adapt to those conditions and take the full advantage of the situations and move on.
Amazing story with amazing charecters.in this movie i found every charecture interested.every suporting charecter are used masterfuly.movie is creative and smart i don't want to spoil anything foe new comers because i think every one shoild expiriance this exelent movie
Well, after all the glory this film has had, I decided to watch it. And for my opinion, it wasn't that great. Was it the hype, I don't know..I just didn't like that much to esteem the movie as #2 in IMDb top 250 list. It was just as boring as Stephen King's book are. Afer all, acting was great, I have no bad things say about that, it's only a bad script, for my opinion. Nowadays, when there's such realistic prison descriptions, as OZ and Prison break, this one doesn't give the spark. For a good prison movie I reckon the following: If you wanna see a good prison movie, you should watch ' Blood In Blood Out ', If you haven't had a chance already. Now, there's a reality check and a great movie, which haven't lost it's best-before date, like this one has.
I can't even put into words how much I loved this film, it completely stole my heart and love for cinema. It is such a beautiful story of friendship and life, frank darabont has truly made a masterpiece. I was told right before the film " if you don't cry at the end there's something wrong with you" I was crying before the end !! I honestly love this film unconditionally and nothing will change it from being my no1 :) and also ( there are no R*pe scenes only references) I hope you have a great day whoever is reading this and please WATCH THIS MOVIE!!
A good-written script, wonderful, genuine characters & a touching story overall with deep meaning that leaves you feeling happy, hopeful & somewhat bittersweet! One of the best movies ever made!
Soooo amazing movie the screen plan, actors, director are awsome so successfull thanks for all workers on backstage you had a very splendid movie congratssss.
jake1st@yahoo.com asked: "Finally, can someone please tell me how he got that poster of Racquel Welch back on the wall after he climbed frontways into that tunnel?"

For someone who was apparently closely observing this film, you should have noticed how it was attached to the wall. It was hanging from above. Thus Andy Dufresne would only have to lift it up (like a flap) and it would flap back down behind him.

Watch it again if you don't believe me. I believe this is shown twice, if not more.
Shawshank Redemption is a film which follows the events of Andy Dufresne while he has to live, or more like, survive, at Shawshank Prison.

This film has it all. The scenes, the camera angles, the actors, the dialogue, story... It's all tied in in a way that few films do. The movie continues its narrative perfectly, and the actors do an amazing job at portraying the characters.

I don't want to do a review with spoilers, but I'll tell you, if you're having doubts on watching this movie, don't.
This movie has no reason to be so good while being so old, which just shows that some of these new directors are lazy. The acting, characters development and in general Morgan freeman are great. The plot for this movie is just perfect and it really gives a good insight on prison and prisoners. 9/10 a must watc.
having watched "shawshank the redeeming feature" broadcast here in the u.k. last night i thought it was time to add my voice to the plaudits rightly showered on this wonderful movie i have never met anyone who doesn't believe that it is one of the greatest films ever made it crosses demographic,age and sex barriers like almost no other film that i have come across it is an impossible film to ignore and notwithstanding repeated viewing it maintains it's capacity to inspire and captivate in my view it is rightly lauded as one of the best five movies of all time p.s. well done mark kermode and channel4 for last night's documentary-more of this type of thing please dvd extras have shown that there is definitely a market for these sort of documentaries
If you were to look at a plot synopsis for this movie, there is little chance that you would be interested in it. However having watched it on recommendation from a friend, I was staggered at how good this movie is. I don't know what it was, but something grabbed hold of me and made me appreciate this movie. Tim Robbins is excellent as Andy Dufresne and he never won an Academy Award is beyond me.

After all the cliched buddy-buddy movies made in the 80's, it's nice to be able to sit down and watch a tale of genuine and lasting friendship.

This movie is amazing! This movie even with its rating is still underrated. Spectacular movie. 20/10 if I could.
A movie that changed millions of lives.

About a movie that talks about institutionalization. It it not just the redemption that redeem us from the ignorance but the very face of societies where we face in everyday's life that we don't acknowledge it normally. The redemption should be a redemption.
While "the Godfather" is the current number 1, I have to say that, although I love the Godfather, it never gives me the same feeling as "The Shawshank Redemption". It gives me goosebumps everytime I see it. You actually pitty the inmates, even when you know what they did. But the best part of the experience is the way the story let's you be Red and look at the terribly strange new inmate and watch him give everyone a better life.
This movie shows the power of hope in humans. Human can make anything possible if he believe in himself. It also depicts with resiliency and strong will power you can achieve your goal. Very inspiring movie.
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption.
The movies doesn't feel anywhere near 2hr 30m, the movie is never boring, and there's not one second where you don't feel what Andy, Red, or even characters that are considered "minor" like Brooks. That's what makes the ending so satisfying for these two beloved characters. Yesterday was my second viewing of the film in my life time and nothing in the movie makes it less entertaining than the first viewing. This movie is able to make you feel every emotion there is and that's what makes it one of my favorite movies of all time, 10/10.
I love reading and watching movies based on Stephen King books.

What an interesting film! The cast is incredible! The film has a parallel with life itself - someone chooses to go with the flow, and someone will achieve some goals and not give up. Such people inspire and make you reach for them. The film "The Shawshank Redemption" is certainly about such a person.
People need to know that this hopeful prison story is a great and disturbing movie. The language in this film is not horrible but its definitely not great the way the language is used can be in many different ways it's some times used in a sexual way sometimes used in a violent or angry way and sometimes just used in dialogue. The violence in this film can range from rape to beatings to shootings and to disturbing hangings and suicides that should not be taken lightly. When it comes to the sexual content there's nothing really except some lewd jokes and the rape scenes but that goes under violence there's also a bit of sexual dialogue during the rape scenes. There's also not that many drugs except lots of cigarettes because one of the character runs a cigarette trade through the prison. Overall this film is disturbing sad great happy and violent all at the same time and is a great film with great actors and a great story line.
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.

The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having watched them.
Haven't seen this for a couple years, guess I should give it a try again. It was enjoyable and clever at turns, but a little formulaic. I was also very bothered by the lack of racism portrayed in the film. Racism is a very bad thing, but it was also so very pervasive in the 1930's that portraying it as basically nonexistent is tantamount to historical revisionism. That left a bad taste in my mouth.
i watched this movie a 10 times...still not a bit bored..this is the most Beuiful and greatest movie...the screenplay is perfect and the actors are performing just like the prisoners in the jail.The casting of the movie is just perfectly great,i can't think anyone other than the those actors in respective roles.Tim Robbins and Morgan freeman is just great to watch.If you didn't watched this movie you have just lost something...hope...the greatest of things...the movie starts with Tim Robbins sent into the jail for murdering his wife and lover..and imprisoned for two life sentence.he has seen worried in the beginning but he retains hope to survive.When i watched the climax when Andy escapes from the prison i can't believe the moment and i rewind it for another ten times..just incredible movie
http://tele-film.com http://tele-film.com/news/1 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 11:22 http://tele-film.com/news/11 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 11:20 http://tele-film.com/news/15 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 11:25 http://tele-film.com/news/18 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 11:26 http://tele-film.com/news/22 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 11:31 http://tele-film.com/news/26 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 11:34 http://tele-film.com/news/30 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 12:00 http://tele-film.com/news/33 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 12:01 http://tele-film.com/news/36 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 12:03 http://tele-film.com/news/39 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 12:07
Shawshank Redemption is quite possibly the best movie ever made. This includes all time frames and genres. There are no flaws in this story; only brilliance. It's simply a remarkable story. It's a timepiece feature with an amazing cast. Character development is top-notch. The story line and delivery are extraordinary. I wish I could re- watch this movie over again as if I had never seen it before, so do yourself a favor... if you're watching this movie or plan to watch this movie for the first time... turn off your phone, dim the lights and be prepared to be amazed. It's an enriching story with adult content that is suitable for older kids. You will laugh. You will cry. You will get angry. And... you will feel love, hope and redemption unlike any movie you have ever seen before. Shawshank Redemption is unforgettable.
A movie worth watching one of all time favorites movies.
This movie is absolutely the best movie I've ever seen. I can't help but sit down through this whole movie and not get up once even though I've seen it over and over again. Every part of the movie I'm saying to myself "I can't get up now, this is my favorite part". Although, my two favorite parts are the beer scene and the end of the movie. If you haven't seen this movie yet, go out and buy it. Don't rent it, you won't take it back!
One of the best movies ever made. The actors are brilliant , Director und Screenplay A+.The suspense is how should always be in such movies.I personally like the end at most.Morgan Freeman play very good his role and Tim Robbins he should make more acting i almost forgot him as a actor and he is so talented,at age but look at Freeman.I recommend this movie to all.It's one of those movies you shouldn't miss.
This is my favorite movie of all time and I have viewed it many times. It is the only movie that produced quotes which I use in my life. This movie flows from beginning to end, the characters are perfectly cast, and the story line is impeccable. Can you imagine anyone other than Morgan Freeman doing the narration for this movie? Anyone else as Andy Dufresne? Get busy living or get busy dying..Damm Right! This movie has one of the best final scenes ever filmed.
What is so special about this movie? Thats what I asked myself when I saw it as one of the few IMDB top-rated movies I didn't know yet. Now I know why it deserves to be there. It is the best prison movie ever made. Most prison movies try to accuse the prison system by showing an increasing level of violence and spectacular escapes. Shawshank Redemption is somewhat different. The main actor is portrayed from the view of a second person and most of the time we see what this person sees. Shawshank prison is not a monastery, and while there are some violent scenes, most of the violence we only learn by the narrative of the second person. The time saved from depicting violence is spent showing the feelings of the inmates. Beyond the perfect technical work in producing this movie, the plot slowly builds up to incredible moments of courage and purity. I guess this is what essentially makes the movie so great, without being pathetic the movie makes us wonder about our own motives and decisions. Very thought provoking.
I won't say it's the best film ever, but The Shawshank Redemption is certainly the best film *I've* ever seen. There are no big stunts, no state-of-the-art special effects, no naked women.... In fact there are none of the things that are normally "required" to make a film commercial. (Perhaps this accounts for its modest showing at the box office.) What it *has* got is humanity, subtlety and a great story with a brilliant payoff! One of the first DVDs I ever bought and by far the most played.
Well. I don't have anything to say but, the movie was 100% great. Morgan Freeman is the man. Superb acting & great story with everyone in the family can watch this movie together. Anyone haven't watched this classic movie, please watch it. It's worth it buying the original DVD from Amazon or CD Universe. The script is greatly done. Movies like this are more offently released. I watched it twice & I have the original DVD with me. Talking about "Stephen King" great writer & I loved his films such as "Secret Window", "Red Rose", "The Mist", "Pet Semetary" are some of the movies I really preferred watching. The good thing is that this movie are released by all the good production companies like Castelock Entertainment, Warner Brothers & 20th Century Fox.

That's all. Again great movie. Watch it!!!
This movie is excellent. It really makes you feel good. It's about hope, the fight for life and most of all, poetical justice. Excellent performances by the cast, visually stunning and has a great deal of realism in it. I totally recommend it. A+
This is probably my favorite film and deserves all credit is gets on this site and more. It gets no mentioning from AFI or other official lists, but I would easily put it in the top 10. It is probably the most riveting story in a movie ive seen, from the beginning you are on Tim Robbins side and how can you deny that both he and Morgan Freeman give the best performances of their lives.
Yes, the leads are good actors, but that doesn't make the movie much better. I read an Esquire poll once that listed this as one of the male voters' top 10 movies of all time, and after the listing, Esquire wrote (huh?) couldn't agree more.
Such a great film. Great acting, great cinematography, the list goes on and on. Undoubtedly a great film, not necessarily good enough for #2 of all time, but great. Don't miss this one. I give it 10 out of 10.
This movie for me was a really great drama. Although some people would act as though this freaking movie was genius, which in my opinion is a little bit over rated. Tim Robbins does do a great job in seeming as though hes just a good guy, and morgan freeman, well hes just morgan freeman in another role. The movie is a tad bit long and the action is none. But the acting is great and the ending is to pretty great. I liked this movie a lot but I did not finish this movie thinking that it was one of the best films of all time, like I was led to believe. All in all it was a great film that I give an 8 or just below that, like a 7.9. So as long as you got the bong out and some munchies and your not a punk kid with A.D.D. which by the way I have myself. You should definitely like this one. Two Blunts up.
This is the best movie I have ever seen. One should watch it if he/she is a movie enthusiast.


This movie is still on the top of the 250 . that's the only reason. you should watch it,except it's a great story and a great casting. the line "REMEMBER HOPE IS GOOD THING" really a touching line after all.. i just love the concept of it. in case you haven't watched the PRISON BREAK.this movie will make you fall in love with. all of the suspense in the movie was spectacular obviously. it's shows the friendship between the two people were definitely a bond of H2o unable to break. for the new viewer like me i didn't like the printing of the movie or maybe it's was my digital copy effect. but i think in 1994 the camera were not so good like today so. i will say that watching 2 hours were not wasted, it's all good and not boring too.
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see this one more than once.
Watching this movie was a pleasure, the acting was outrageously good. A film without special effects and action every 5 minutes, just men in prison. All I can say is I would have loved this film to have been longer.

The acting from Morgan Freeman is second to none, he proves in this film why he is regarded as one of the greatest actors to grace our screens.

Anyone who hasn't seen this film needs too watch it straight after reading this review as it will change your opinion on a lot of other films.
Before watching this movie i was just postponing, its been a year or two after I really made up my mind to watch this movie, starting of this movie is really slow, at first any person who person who is a fan of movies like escape from Alcatraz and TV series like prison break you really gonna start questioning yourself that Andrey really gonna escape or not but keep your hope that its really going to be awesome. This movie is like filling a bucket with water drop by drop, so have some patience to watch this movie.

Moral of the story: "Hope is a good may be the best thing & good thing never dies"
I bet Shawshank is playing on a station somewhere sometime at every hour of the day. That being said I can watch it every time I come across it.
The best movie ever made. Perfect acting, direction, script, music etc. It was seriously robbed at the Oscars in the worse Academy Award mistake of recent years.

There is no film better. That's all there is to say.
Amazing that a movie with this much misery can be about hope. Great performances throughout. Thomas Newman does a fantastic job with the soundtrack here as he does on American Beauty and Road to Perdition. Also he took cousin Randy's role in Finding Nemo.
Can anything be said? surely one of the greatest films of all time, it has tremendous acting and some very sad moments in the film, throughout, the script is solid. The acting immense. WELL DONE TO ALL INVOLVED! Any comments email me- subject title SHAWSHANK.

Cheers.
This is a perfect movie. I love the message of hope.
One of the greatest stories ever made. I'm not much of a fan of King but this film adaptation is probably my favorite. Inspirational with good life lessons.

After watching "The Shawshank Redemption" I realize that the comment I saw on the movie were not exaggerating, not a movie with light sabers, nor with mafia phrases, much less killing to kill bill, but if you have two men talking to each teaching us to value life. I've always been looking for the perfect movie for me perfect film is one that touches the soul, this movie, no effects, no fiction, I was succeeded, I found the perfect movie. Showing us a point of view that many perhaps have not known yet, one of the few movies that generates feeling.That's why it makes the best movie made so far "Keep busy living or get busy dying"
When a movie makes you feel passionate and caring about murderers and thieves, you know you are watching a good one. The Shawshank Redemption may very likely be the best movie i have ever seen. Not only because of the mentioned fact, but because it has the every basics a good film needs. No movie making mistakes really are found through my eyes. This movie is rough, sad or even happy at moments. It makes you feel like you were there experiencing what the characters do. Superb acting by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman and Frank Darabont's direction too. The Screenplay is not really by any way too predictable and from the first two minutes you know you are watching something special. I really can't of any movie that beats this one...
Rate: 9.7/10 Rounded to 10

The Shawshank Redemption is easily the greatest movie of all time. Not many movies can compete with the greatness of this film. To start, the movie is based off a great book by a great writer. The Stephen King novel makes the perfect story for a movie. Next, the acting is great, it features two great actors: Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, who together form an amazing team. Finally, Frank Darabont did a great job directing this film. To sum it all up, this is a great movie. If you haven't seen it... WATCH IT! I bet you'll like it.

Was this review helpful? If so, check out my other reviews. Or, visit my website for more: www.tmb2k.com

The Shawshank Redemption..What can i say it is one of the most amazing movies ever made.The cast is amazing and the characters suit each and everyone of the star.Morgan Freeman did an amazing job as always as a narrator and on of the cast member.He is in his all time deep words and quotes.The main role done by Tim Robbins is too good.One of the most deep characters of all time and Tim Robbins doing such an amazing job,He made me feel the character.One of the best movies and acting's of all time. I strongly prefer this movie to people who love to see someone act and look into an awesome story,this is such an amazing piece of art
Probably the best movie ever made. I've seen the Shawshank redemption maybe 20 times over the years and it still moves me each time. This is a timeless masterpiece where everything just comes together in to perfection -the score, the acting, the editing, the directing, the source material and adaptation. If you by some fluke should have missed this you have to allow yourself this amazing experience. This is a once in a lifetime movie where everything just comes together. With this and the green mile Frank Darabont made two of historys best pictures but this still take the first place in my book. Don't miss out on this one!
Best there is and there will be.

"I guess it comes down to a simple choice, really. Get busy living, or get busy dying."
I don't know why I had selected the film on Hotstar, may be due to the look of Freeman on the thumbnail. But after completing the viewing there was a calm fulfilment of mind. The depth of the storyline, the conservative attitude of direction, the mesmerized background music, the excellence in lighting made the film so matured. Freeman was good as well and Gunton was superb. Thanks to the director.
This is an excellent work. For a movie that doesn't have much drama, but has so realistic details, I was captivated. The performances are epic. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman has done one of the finest work of acting. The plot was not the most unique or unusual, but the work was Homeric, by that I mean it is monumental. This is one of those movies that will put you to think, that how patience can yield you fruits and how impatience and wrath can put you to jail. His anger made him do something (though he didn't do it) but he did act towards killing his wife, which lead him to jail. And later the patience was the only key for success, and he did manage to get away from that jail.by working hard for it. A must watch.


Amazing movie no antic no vfx no actress but still a masterpiece best movie ever i dont know how many times i watched but every time i feel amazing
Maybe the film is too old for my generation but I just found it boring, predictable, overrated and long.
This beautiful movie speaks about hope, about doing your best even when luck turns against you, about humanity, with his lights and shadows, it's about friendship, about cowardice, about the miseries and corruption of the evil... In essence, it's a movie about virtue and vices, staged on a prison. It's this kind of movies that despite being long, they keep interest and seem short. A piece of art.
I watched this movie years ago and i watching now too. I think the most watched film in the world. maybe not the best but everyone has to watch.
Okay, honestly, I don't think there's anything I can say about this movie that hasn't been said already, but I'll try anyway.

'Shawshank Redemption' is the greatest movie in history! The story is excellent and despite it's enormous runtime, the pacing is so good you don't even notice the time go by.

Everyone gives a wonderful performance, which combined with the writing makes each character feel so real.

How this film didn't bring home any Oscars is beyond me.
This is without a doubt the most well crafted movie I've ever seen. I wish I could wipe my memory and experience it the way I did on my first time watching.
Loved this movie! Great story, amazing and remediable characters. The Plot keeps you guessing, I was on the edge of my seat the whole time I watch it!

Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give performances that will knock your socks off! There on screen friendship makes me weep for something as close and meaningful in everyday life. This is a movie to watch on a rainy day, with a big bucket of pop corn and a cold soda. As time goes on this movie will stand the test of time, it will be considered a classic, up their with greats like Brian's song, or the lethal weapons franchise.


A friend of mine who unbelievably loves movies, share an information about this movie by the time i won a local short film award in Indonesia. He simply said that this is a must-see movie for a director or DP. So i tried hard to search for this film and finally found it. Before seeing the movie, i read the credit title that impressed me instantly. I thought "this is not gonna be bad at all". From the very first scene to the last of it, I can only comment that this film really inspires me to write, produce and direct a neat story telling concept with a surprising ending. No wonder it gets the highest rated film here because the moment i reached the ending, i can only WOW it. Genius!
Absolutely fantastic film from start to finish, watched it to dress of times and still gets better every time i watch it

I really don't even want to write this review because words can't describe the beauty that is The Shawshank Redemption. There are simply so many underlying philosophical themes embedded in this movie that do a masterful job of analyzing society, the concept of hope, the will of the human spirit, and the bond that can be created by two human beings. I didn't want this to be my favorite movie simply because it has the highest rating on this website. But, after taking the time to sit down and watch the whole thing I am 100% content with the fact that this has become my favorite movie, as of now... (5/13/17)
Watched this movie for a first time with my father when I was a little kid. Since then I can watch this one every time when I have a chance to do so.

About honour, friendship, determination, rules.

Just love it!
Shawshank is one of the best prison movies other than green mile if you haven't seen it where have you been Morgan freeman at his best if you haven't seen it stop what you are doing and watch it...thank me later you wont be disappointed What you still reading this for... Go go go Still here huh

Watch it again.. when you feel down or need an uplift. This movie shows how a movie can motivate others life.. it's the ultimate example that proves movie is the best and unperishable medium to perform literatures


Tied for the best movie I have ever seen...Unwatchable !!
One badass film realiy good if u not seen u need too

I was recommended to watch this God-awful movie.I watched until the end. By God I wished I hadn't. It really was, undoubtedly, the most depressing film I have ever seen.
There is nothing that i can say that has not been said already. What can i say. It's one of the best movies ever made.
You cant really critasis this film, it's a good all rounder and a hard hitting story line
Great acting, magnificent story. Nothing more to be said
This is without a doubt one of kings best movies and to be honest with there isn't much to be said except that you need to watch it to get why it is so good. I wouldn't recommend it if you don't like dramas or slower movies, but other than that definitely give it a try. My only hope is that they don't give it a remake like the rest of king's films.
This movie i watch many time, and every time I see it very motivated
Felt like it was real , such a good acting and direction. Hatsoff for good story line script , acting , location and last but not least the direction.
I run the risk of disappointing new viewers of this film by praising it as one of my all time favorites. One should view this movie with little preconception, and let it do its thing in its own time and way. People critique it for being slow paced, but time plays such an important part of this film--the pacing is hardly accidental. This is one of those films that is hard to fault for technique or failure to convey intent. About the only way you can object is if you don't agree with its outlook on life. I too, am surprised at how many of my friends and family list this as one of their top films--independent/prior to any cajoling on my part! I'm eagerly anticipating the DVD release of this film--I've purposely kept from watching my VHS copy any more so that I can experience the movie and its wonderful score all over again on DVD.
I saw this movie and it is incredible. I like it very much.
This film truly captivates the way hope can set anyone free from their obstacles. I truly enjoyed this movie. It is most probably the greatest film there is.
This movie is one of those kind of movies that would move you on the power of bond and friendship. This movie tells to us that life with friends there to comfort you would make life worth all the pain and the obstacles. I was completely moved.
too bad it came out in '94 with gump and fiction. deserved to win some awards. compelling flick based on a s. king short story that proves he is not a hack. (Check out Different Seasons which also has The Body (Stand By Me) and Apt Pupil. The movie follows the short story well with a few embellishments. Good casting, though i think tim robbins might have been an alternate choice. star quality deliveries by morgan freeman and bob gunton. in an era when we see much garbage find its way to the screen, swhawshank represents what movies should strive to achieve.
I was so surprised and glad to see this movie as high as it is on this site's list. It is one of my favorite movies and so many people missed out on it because of GUMP, which I personally feel is an inferior movie.

Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give incredibly moving and restrained performances that moved me to tears more than once. The direction and timing were flawless, and the story itself inspirational. It is so nice to see a Stephen King movie done right for once.

This is simply a wonderful movie, worth watching over and over again.
A great movie in all categories, the best I have ever seen. Morgan Freeman have never played a role like this one. He is outstanding as Red. It is also the best movie Stephen King has ever been a part of. This is a must see.
"The Shawshank Redemption" is the best film from a Stephen King story. The best by far. This film fits together so intricately and the end seems almost impossible. It's what everyone wants, of course, but it just doesn't seem possible. This movie could not be more perfectly cast, and the direction is impeccable. The story draws you in. This movie and "The Green Mile" are alike in the sense that they capture your attention for the entire film. These films are powerful and well-made. "The Shawshank Redemption" sits on another level. It is a film that will not grow old. It will stay fresh and fulfilling as the years go by. This is a must-see film. To go without seeing this movie is quite a loss. Do yourself a favor and see this quality flick!
One of the most beautiful movies I ever seen. Everyone has to see it.
This is one of those dramas that will keep on tied till the end. It showed the beauty of a griping screenplay. Some films will give a spark from the first glance itself. This is one movie that takes you deeper the more you watch it. a very thin story line with superb acting. But if you just want to watch a good movie with social message and how to not lose hope, then go for it
What amazes me about the Shawshank Redemption is that I can watch it over and over again without losing interest. Normally for me, even with movies I enjoy, once is enough. However, when I'm channel surfing and I flip across Shawshank, I almost always leave it on and watch it to the end.
What can I say? It is well worth the viewing. Breathtaking. >Leaves you in awe. You laugh and cry, and feel glad to be alive >after this movie is through with you. One to own and watch over >and over. I highly recommend
This film combines great acting and intense plot to form a truly powerful movie. I does not matter what genre you like this film will make you feel for the characters. The best Stephen King movie by far. When watching the film to really get into it watch it without your friends around.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best movies I have ever seen. There is so much to this story and if you blink once you'll miss something. Behind every color and object there lies a message. Watching this movie only once is an injustice. It is a great movie and I highly recommend it.
A movie about life, about freedom and about friendship. This movie is just perfect. I've seen it a lot of times and I just can't get enough of it. Each time i see it, i learn something else. This movie gives you a different meaning about freedom. Great performances of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, and perfectly directed too.
This must be one of the movies I have enjoyed most at the cinema. I can't find one bad moment in this masterpiece. Both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman delivered their parts as if they were living them. Morgan Freeman's thought's was interesting listening too. My feeling for this film can't be expressed in words so I let the rest of the audience decide whether they like it or not. But as You already imagine, this is one of my favorites.

10 out of 10

A must see......................
I have just finished watching this movie for about the sixth time and I still feel the inspiration of hope in my heart from the movie's glorious ending. I give this movie a 10 out of 10 and yes this is my favourite movie. I'm sure there's others which tie in my taste for best picture I just can't bring them to mind right now. (Actually, come to think of it The Breakfast Club ranks pretty high up there as well.)I just wanted to say that this movie is very well done all the way from the acting, the storyline, to the musical track it wins on all three fronts for me. And I also wanted to say that it may have been robbed at the Oscars or almost passed through unrecognized by the public in its theatrical release, or may have even made not that much money it seems to have been redeemed itself on the IMDB with a well deserved #2 ranking among the favourites IMDB voters voted for. A must see.
I rented the Shawshank Redemption after reading many of the comments on this very page, and I have to agree: this movie is absolutely brilliant: great acting, great direction, great writing, and one of the most moving story lines ever. I give it a 20 out of 10.
This film is, with no shadow of a doubt what so ever, the best movie that I have ever had the wonderous pleasure to view. Films like Shawshank are what allow me to love movies and to cherish wonderful stories. I can say that I'm a critical gremlin- I'm constantly attempting to find faults, flaws and plot holes in every movie i see- yes, I'm that guy who always says it was only an ok movie when you loved it- But... this one is so powerful, so beautiful, so absolutely inspiring that I couldn't care if there was a plot hole or a flaw, its just too good of a film to attack. To Hell with Forest Gump for winning over Shawshank, to Hell with Titanic, Shakespeare in garbage, The English Idiot, and Forest Dump- these movies all sucked, sucked, sucked to begin with but compared to the diamond jewel of Shawshank, they look as good as sitcoms made by Fox. So anyway, my favorite movie of all time and only one of three movies worthy of a ten rating.
The Shawshank redemption is one of a very few movies that lives up to the book it is based upon. Many Stephen King books become almost unrecognizable on the screen, but this one, like 'The Green Mile', stays true to the feel and rhythm of the book. Every time I watch it, I appreciate it more. One of the best.
This film is destined to become a true classic. This masterpiece of filmmaking is worthy of its place on the Top 250 and should be #1. The film gives time to its characters and time to the story unlike other films. We see the world through the characters and feel as they do. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give outstanding performances well worthy of an Academy Award. The ending is the greatest of any film and is so because of the time given to the characters and story. The score captivates the feeling of the film and gives the feel of Andy and Red's true redemption. This is a must have in any collection and deserves all the allure it has been given.
Anyone who has seen this film will understand why I cannot justify with words.

Anyone who has not seen it; I feel sorry for you.

10/10

Its one of those movies that teaches the appreciation of life. The movie is masterfully crafted with an incredible story line. Every dialogue is deep, hard hitting and intriguing. There is not one forgettable character in this movie and it is a pleasure to watch how their stories develop and intertwine with the protagonist.
I give it an 8 but it shouldn't be in the first position! This is Fight Club's spot...

The Shawshank Redemption is a beautiful film about the power of hope. Andy Dufrense (Tim Robbins) is one of those rare characters in American cinema that inspires one to live with conviction, tenacity, and poetry. The relationship between he and Red (Morgan Freeman) echoes the deep friendship found in the Biblical story of Jonathan and David. Truly a film to watch again and again. "Get busy living, or get busy dying."
i cannot believe someone would call this movie great i would give it a 3 but the fact it is the highest rating movie ever on this site makes me go crazy how pathetic can this be this is the most overrated movie ever created made with a low budget it seems all that happens is a guy that went to prison gets raped several times escapes and meets his friend from prison back when he was out ending 99% of the movie was made in prison where all that happened was he gets raped and washes some clothes seriously how can you even compare this near to godfather dark knight etc? ...and the bad director just killed himself at the end his wife gets killed he isn't even sad about it 20 years in prison has some money not that much and is happy how nice
The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made, but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul. giving 8/10
Well, Shawshank Redemption is a perfect movie. There is no scene out of place, no piece of music that stands out, the moral is very clear, and it doesn't even need to be spelt out for you. The acting by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman complete the movie and make it the heart-warmer, the tear jerker, the nail biter, and the perfect movie that it is. After I saw it for the first time, I was instantly touched and a fan for life. I've only seen it three or four more times, but each time I see it, I learn something new, or discover a new angle of the story. I'd say that if you only see one movie for the rest of your life, it would have to be Shawshank Redemption. And if, after watching it, you can tell me that it isn't the best movie in the world, then I'd say that there is something seriously wrong with you.

This is one of the best movies I've seen. I was never bored, or lost interest, even though it's not an action movie. I'd recommend it for anyone. Proof that Stephen King doesn't just write horror.
So yeah this is probably the best movie ive ever seen in my life. Its brilliantly shot(roger deacons of course) magnificently scored, perfectly acted by the entire cast,heart warming,heart breaking and uplifting in equal measure. Its a classic for a damn good reason and I hope it gets a 4k release for its 25th aniversery.
I have absolutely no flaws with this movie in any way
What can I say that hasn't already been said before? Probably no much, so i'll repeat what almost everyone else on the planet has said before. This movie is fantastic. If you haven't seen it and you get the chance to, watch it.
Superb adaptation of Stephen King's story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption. It is very true to the story, with all its mood, plot twists and the bad guy you love to hate. Characterization is magnificent. I am not normally a Tim Robbins fan, but he does a near perfect job here. Very satisfying. Worth seeing many times. The scene with the music from the Marriage of Figaro is my favorite. The relationship between Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman's characters grows into one of the most satisfying in fiction. As all great fiction does, this story and the movie of it make you question what is real, what is true, and what is important.
I'm sure in the 6,825 reviews there are currently for The Shawshank Redemption, anything that I was planning on saying would have already been said and more eloquently than I would.

If you haven't seen this film, just watch it and thank everybody later. It has a rating of 9+ for a reason.
Okay, so, this is one of my favourite films ever. Writing this review makes me want to watch it again 'cause it's just so damn good. I first watched it a couple years ago and to be honest, I wasn't expecting to like it. I thought a film about a prison would just be a bit boring and tedious, but I was so so so so wrong. The acting is really incredible and the characters are well fleshed out and likeable (the main characters, that is) and the plot is genuinely so entertaining, clever and exciting. I haven't read the novella by Stephen King, but I reckon it's still a pretty good adaptation. Anyway, it's a really great film that has a satisfying ending. Would recommend to anyone.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best classic movies of all the time. No wonder it got many nominations. I think everything about this movie is pure gold starting with the story because is a movie that makes you feel all the emotions; touches the soul like no other, we go to an experience that lasts 30, 40, 50 years .. men imprisoned, physically, morally and sentimentally deprived of the most basic things, the long is cruel and central, he touches and shocks, talks to the viewer through the most felt privations of detainees, the story is very complex and keeps you interested from beginning to end. This movie is really a jewel and I strongly believe that is a candidate that can't be missed in the list of films you should definitely watch before you die.
Whenever this movie comes on I have to watch it. This movie is very compelling and if you have not seen it I'm not going say much to spoil it for you. This movie takes place over a few decades of wrongful imprisonment of a banker who is accused of killing his wife. The time spent in prison is sought with so many horrors as I saw it especially for a man who never should have been imprisoned. The end is great and after the movie is over they just leaving you hanging on a "What's next" Like no other. I have seen many movies leaving you or trying to leave you hanging but every time I see the Shawshank Redemption I wonder what occurred after the beach.
Life is like a box of chocolates, you never know what you're gonna get.
What can I say? What is there left to say?

I still remember the first time I saw this piece of art. I was hooked from the beginning until the end of the credits, with that wonderful score by Thomas Newman.

This movie will make you shiver and leave you with a strange feeling for many days. It's about friendship, it's about hope, it's about life. I believe this is one of the few movies that were flawless from beginning to end, and has one of the best endings of all time. Tim Robbins, along with Morgan Freeman, delivered one of their best performances and teached us a life lesson.

It absolutely deserves the Number 1 place on IMDb's TOP 250 Movies.
Good one. Lot of things happening in the story . But simple . Good acting . good ending . I watched in 2020

The first time i read about this movie, I was sure that this movie is overrated, But after seeing him, I am sure that this movie is underrated It is the best movie ever. It is about hope, passion, love and friendship. I do not think that Hollywood can produce an other movie like that, it one in century. The acting was GENIUS, The script was the best ever, The director was a maestro. A lot of Novel-Moivis not good as the novel, I did not read Stephen King's Novel, but I am sure that the movie is much better. believe me if you saw the movie you will not be able to forget it. Believe me when I say that you will not able to talk after seeing the movie at least for 20 minutes, and the first thing you will say 'Why this sons of bitches did not give it Best Motion Picture'. Well Forrest Gump won it - and I love this movie- but believe they do not deserve it. See the movie, I am sure that this will change your view to the future, to the hope, and to the friendship.
It's one of the best movies I've ever seen! if you haven't seen it, you're living for no reason!
I started watching it beacuse it was on my list, but without many expectations. It turned out to be one of the best movies IÂ´ve ever seen.

And one of the few 10s I ever gave to a movie on IMDB.
Thank god I am alive to watch this movie.I really appreciates the director of this movie.

This movie is a true masterpiece.
This film was very inspirational and spiritual and I really enjoyed it. It truly demonstrated how difficult life was back then. It was well written and well produced. The acting that was demonstrated was tremendous. I truly enjoyed watching this film. The film Shawshank Redemption conveys to the audience the image of hope in the worst possible situation. Through the themes and the cinematic decisions applied in these two episodes the director has made these vital to the understanding of the movie. He has given two examples of the extreme situations to which prisoners go depending on their emotions. One of the emotions is yet one of the main themes of the movie, hope, and in my opinion it has been brought up extremely effectively.
I have entirely watched this movie twice. The first time was at my age of 19. I stayed up for watching it because the plot is super attractive. The second time is just now. A great movie is worth seeing again and again.
am i one of the few who watched this at a cinema? Watched at the now closed Odeon, Haymarket on a Wednesday when I had nothing better to do and know very little about the film apart from a Geordie mate kept raving about it. With limited expectations, I came out totally enthralled by a magnificent cinematic experience - one that you all too rarely enjoy. To me you have to take inspiration from Defrene; no matter how tough your situation is, you need to focus on what you want to achieve and retain the belief that your dreams can come true. The scene on top of the roof, drinking beer is tops. Only wish I knew where my son has posted the DVD! We have to watch it on video now!
Best Drama movie i have ever seen. You must watch this movie before dead
One of the best movies I've seen, and one of only a few I am willing to watch more than once. The kids have even watched it more than me. The pacing is slow but constant and the tone it sets pulls you in from the start.
The best interpretation of hope People in the wall always cry for freedom, but we really get the wall? The oscars were overshadowed by forrest gump in its heyday, and as time went on, the film surpassed forrest gump in the hearts of more and more people. Whenever reality makes me feel powerless, I flip out this disc and regain my strength. Without a doubt, this movie is among the top three must-see movies for men! Recall that a classic line: "some people's wings are so bright, even the world's darkest prison, also can not long besieged him!"
If I were asked what I should put at the beginning of the films I have watched so far, I would say 'the price of captivity'. However, I will make my grandchildren watch this movie. It would be my shame to ask them to be deprived of a movie like this when they were growing up.
This movie is perfection. One of the best movies ever made, in my opinion.
Clever, precise, patience, purpose, friendship, loyalty, stealth, hope, hard work, system, extortion and so many things can be find, seen, heard, read there.
I love it, i do always love and watch to see movies on 70's to 90;. To me those was the gold time for cultured. I want to see more . Best Film.
Brilliant movie! Absolutely amazing. The ending is very emotional.
Some films will be watched by future generations and are timeless. A heartwarming story whatever the settings and date.

I was deeply impressed by this film. Nothing can stop us from chasing what we want.
I watched it when I was very young,and I did not see much of the significance of the film.I just thought Andy was awesome! Persistence is victory ,this move should have a lot of meaning.I am going to watch it again.
Andy : There are places in the world that aren't made out of stones .There is something inside that they can't get to ,that they can't touch . Spiritual freedom, then nothing can hold you back. Read more books, go out more, knowledge is very important.
Hope Is Good Thing May Be The Best Of Things And No Good Thing Ever Dies & Hope Is A Dangerous Thing It Can Drive A Man Insane.
When I saw this movie on the top 250 movies of all time list (it appeared as #2) I thought I was in for one of the best movies ever made. Yes, it was an interesting story, but it seemed much too unrealistic to be among the top 10. I mean sure, The Sixth Sense, one of my favorite movies, is unrealistic, but we realize that going into the movie. It doesn't play itself off as a real movie about real friendships.

The movie was worth seeing, but the way everything fell into place was really disturbing for me. That's not real life. I give the movie a 7 out of 10, in that, it was a good movie, but it certainly wasn't the best.
One of the best movies of all time. A lot can be learnt from Andy. The character of Abdy shows how patience & will power helps to overcome all the odds.
There are hundreds of masterfully crafted films out there but this is my favorite film and I am glad it is still no. 1 on the IMDB ranking. Powerful and moving, deep and true.
One of the best movie I've watched. Best Narration ever! This movie had inspired me so much and loved it.
It's a good story, nice acting and plot, but it deserves a 9/10.
Best film of all time. Not even close. If you haven't seen it (what have you been doing?) go and see it! If you have seen it, go and watch it again! Cinema perfection.
Literally a perfect movie. No flaws, spent couple minutes thinking if there was even anything bad and I couldn't think of any. It is the best movie I have ever seen. Please watch it.
An amazing film that that always surprises you. One of the top movies of all time, awesome acting and a serious and controverted plot.


Old directing, cliched characters, bad dialogues,The main character tries to be perfect but goes towards vulgarity and unrealism,And it's longer than it's worth,not for me .....................................................
Oh my, it's fantastic film. Greatest film for all time.
Best movie ever.

Andy Dufresne is sentenced to two consecutive life terms in prison for the murders of his wife and her lover and is sentenced to a tough prison. However, only Andy knows he didn't commit the crimes. While there, he forms a friendship with Red , experiences brutality of prison life, adapts, helps the warden, etc., all in 19 years.
One of my favorite films, I saw it awhile ago, and this film holds special magic that took away the day I watched it any bad feeling or anything I felt about that day. Story about humankind above all, and friendships, and the power of people believing in you, in a yet real way and not too cheesy way, that leaves you with a great taste in the mouth, and charisma of the two characters is excellent. The plot seemed a little far fetched first, but again, character development and power of human behavior is what makes this film so great. THere's something that strikes you to the emotion, and some simplicity in the film as well, that the moral and theme is, enjoy life, and don't forget those that are dear for you.
To most this is jail break movie, to others it's about friendship, yet some swear by how it is about standing up against authority.

See, the thing with great movies is that they're always about simple things. This movie was about life - about the mistakes you make - about the price you might have to pay - about the irony in it - and of course, about redemption. There is not a single moment in the movie when you feel the crew has lost their grip on the script.

What I enjoyed the most was Morgan Freeman's soliloquies. The dialogues a quoteworthy and are etched long after the movie ends.

This is one of those movies you never get tired of watching.
One day living an ordinary life, the other defenceless brawl for survival spiced with stirring, touching and personal shots one would mind experiencing first-hand.

Will keep it short, possibly the best movie made. an absolute gem
Watched it a couple a months back for the first time. This film truly has great storytelling through its messages and emotions. Freeman puts in one hell of a performance as well.

This is the greatest movie of all time! I'm not joking! The Godfather is good, but this movie is beyond any other movie!Each and every movie ever made has to bow down to this amazing, moving, grasping and beautiful movie! It's story is greater than Forrest Gump, it's actors are greater than Marlon Brando and Al Pacino and Casablanca, it's story is greater than Star Wars(Of course the old ones!)! This is the movie should have one higher number when you vote, because it's greater than a 10, even an 11. It's the most touching story in the story of the movie industry. If you haven't seen this one, you have no idea of what you are missing! This is not a must see picture, this is the most see picture! You'll never regret watching this movie, never!

Movies can hold you prisoner. But only "The Shawshank Redemption" can set you free. Only Shawshank Redemption, forever!
I would like to review this film in a Director of Photography's view, so if you are not interested in filmmaking, you better back off here. The camera movements are phenomenal and unexpected. Amazing cinematography here. Let me not touch about the story.
You know what would have made this movie a whole lot better?

It's if at the end, when Red (Morgan Freeman) made his final long,

windy speech to the parole board, he had been rejected once

again, and the movie ended right there? Maybe then I'd consider

the average rating (9.0) and rank (#2) on the IMDb top 250 list to be

well deserved.
This film is the best one-off ever made. From watching the Green Mile and from what I heard about the Majestic, it seems that Frank Darabont will never make a movie as good as this again. It is emotional, ambitious, and breathtaking in equal measure. The last 30 minutes are the best on celluloid.
Too bad about Tim Robbins' politics, because this is one of the best movies ever made. I never get tired of it. Plot is tightly woven and everything fits together. I particularly enjoy Morgan Freeman, but there are no weak players. This movie deserves to be at the top of the list.
This is the one and only film that even though it is over two hours, I wanted to watch it again, the second it finished. No other film has ever bought up such emotions from me. I will stand by this as The Greatest Film of all time proudly.
This is my favorite movie of all time. But it is only for certain kinds of movie watchers. For people who only want to see action and certain female upper body parts this film is not for you. Ask any real movie watcher, they will all say that this is a great movie.

My family told me this film was a deeply philosophical film which required mature minds to be able to understand. I couldn't disagree more. The Shawshank Redemption is about a man going to prison after being found guilty of murder of his wife, later to be discovered he was wrongly convicted. The story goes from Robbins being a small fish in a big pond in the prison to being a respected figure throughout the film and various events happening along the way. This picture is the only to make me lie awake at night thinking about life and its dreams. I cried during Shawshank and I'm proud of it, I've never felt so passionate about life and its important things. The Shawshank Redemption is about Love For Friends, Hope, Death, Humanity and Loss. Thank You

A truly wonderful movie about patience and hard work
One of my all time favorite movies along with The Green Mile. I love the Stephen King stories of both and I thought they did an excellent job of making movies from them. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are excellent as usual. If you haven't seen this movie you should try it. I don't think you will be disappointed. Excellent characters throughout the movie and a most enjoyable watch. Also if you get the chance read the Stephen King story it was adapted from.

You don't have to be a Stephen King fan to enjoy this movie so give it a try. Well I am trying to write something without giving a spoiler or putting in junk words but it seems IMDb insists I write at least 10 lines of text when just 3 or 4 lines would do.
The IMDb rating of this pedestrian story which relies on the audience manipulation formula "prisoners good /prisons bad" has proven to me that we are neck deep into the decline of all things cultural. When they sell more prints of the Elvis,Bogart, and Marilyn Monroe version of Edward Hopper's "Nighthawks" we know we have a problem. When the people who have the Elvis version see the real "Nighthawks" and get confused, we have additional problems. When Stephen King's name is bandied about as someone's favorite "author" we have Code Red. When Tim Robbins is regarded as some sort of screen presence that can catapult a movie to a # 2 spot we have meltdown.There hasn't been a movie with this much depth since "The Longest Yard." I read a comment earlier by a poster who said that this movie will drop off the list when the IMDb reviewers grew up.

Sadly, their bodies already have, and their minds which will never catch up. Pass the Velveeta...

Having seen this movie several years ago, I decided to rent it again since I couldn't totally recall the movie. And yes, it being number 1 on the top 250 list made me want to see it again. I decided to go into the movie as if i hadn't seen it before to completely enjoy every aspect of it. The first thing I noticed was its amazing story, and even better, its gripping tale that hooks you from the very beginning. Tim Robbins (Andy) and Morgan Freeman (Red) give superb performances. I would go as far as to say that Shawshank is Freeman's best movie (besides Seven). The plot is amazing, with many sub-plots and twists that keep you from doing anything else. And the best part: the ending of the movie. I don't want to give away anything about it, but I'll just say that it rivals the ending of The Usual Suspects in every possible way. All in all, great story, great acting, great plot, awesome ending. What else could you want in a movie?

10/10 and nothing short of the best movie of all time.

"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty -- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off despair.
This movie really displays how horrible life in prison was in the 1900s.The guards, the warden, the facility itself. It just feels so real and almost scary for the watcher.

I gave this movie a 9/10 because I found that it captured almost everything I find important in a movie. I also just love everything from Stephen King and this truly is, his masterpiece.

You really get pulled into the story as it goes on and understand the thoughts and feelings of the main character.

Brilliant actors, a great director and of course the man to thank it all for, Stephen King.
This show was great. In my opinion it is the best show that Tim Robbins is in, Morgan Freeman's best show as well (besides Se7en). But still a great film.

10/10
This is the best of all time... There can be no better person for the role of Morgan Freeman and the storyline is just the best...
This was one of the most excellent movie I have ever seen. Such great acting and characters this movie turns out to be more than your expectations. You might see many jail movies but nothing is even near to this movie. The best line is "Andy Dufresne was my friend." The way Morgan freeman says it, it's wonderful. Acting of Tim Robbins is remarkable. I really wonder why this movie could not win Oscars. Having Morgan Freeman in film itself is a tag of excellent script. Besides that direction is also very well done. You will not have seen such planned and brilliant movie till now Do watch it. This movie deserves to be on top.

The Shawshank Redemption, directed by Frank Darabont in 1994 is the masterpiece of all masterpieces.
Despite all of it's flaws, it is a good film. A film I can watch over and over. It sticks, it holds, it is like great mascara and hairspray rolled into one big great mess. Andy is like me. Red is like me. Brooks....

I like a lot about it. It's spellbounding. A picture worth a thousand words breathtaking. Living inside it, not imagining anything else. It is a wonderful amazing piece of rubbish.

I'd like to thank Darabont, the screenwriter and the director, for finding a heart in a story to give to the masses. We love you too.

Give it up for Mr. Andy Dufresne!
In this moving and dramatic portrayl of the imprisonment of an influencial man (Tim Robbins) in Shawshank prison. This man builds up strong relationships and is a benefit to the lives of many in the prison.

Tim Robbins plays his character with superb acting, backed up by an equally amazing supporting cast. The story takes the main character, Dufrain, and his friends on a journey through the rigures of prison life.

Wonderfully directed and produced, this film topped the box office chart and was quite rightly rated extreemly highly among imdb users when it first came out. This fantastic film has new suprises at every corner. Do not miss it!
Simply awesome, fantastic, optimistic, amazing! Masterpiece of all time..!!
Without question this is my all time favorite movie. Flawless!
My review will be short and simple.

This movie deserves to be number one in the IMDb top list. It is very much worth watching. I saw it when it was new and now, years later, it still has the same power. It is a timeless masterpiece.

The writing, the acting, the emotion are all superb. The story and characters draw you in and keep you captivated form the beginning of the movie right up until the end.

I will not discuss the contents of the story as I do not want to post accidental spoilers. I can honestly say, if you haven't seen this movie already you need to go out and watch it right now.
Shawshank Redemption has been in my top ten movies for a long long time. It's a beautiful story of hope. The filmmaking is utterly exquisite.

Easily a top 10 movie to add to your list. A must watch.
Everything has been said about this movie ...so many reviews,but if you are reading my review then trust me on this..there is no movie been made in any language,country or in this planet which can match this masterpiece ..this is a simple movie ..nothing special about it..2 main characters talking for 2.30 hours ..then why everyone giving it a 10?? just go and watch it to understand that this is beyond a just called movie it's an experience of a lifetime..Every second you spend to watch it will be more then worth..everything you will experience while watching it will stay with you for your lifetime..everything you knew about class movies will be re-written by this ..it might turn out to be a life changing piece of work for you..A MOVIE U MUST SEE BEFORE YOU DIE.
HOLY JESUS! A classic piece of unforgettable film-making.

The whole Brooks scenes are the best pieces of cinema fulls stop
Why everyone need to whatch this movie ? Cause its amazing!
The Shawshank Redemption is a film worth watching. Well-written, well directed and well shot, this film is entertaining throughout. It's a real tear-jerker with deep meaning, and is a must-watch for anyone remotely interested in movies. The only negative is that the story's a little far-fetched, but it barely affects enjoyment of this film.

The plot summary might make The Shawshank Redemption sound a little boring to the modern-day film fanatic, but it really isn't. It's filled with dramatic tension and is both depressing and uplifting, which is a quite rare characteristic for a film to have. This movie is not to be missed.
When I watched this film at first time, I focused very much. Screenplay is very fluent and well-designed. The most significant point for this film, in my opinion related to actors or characters as Andy Dufrense and Red. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman played very convincing. I know leading role was offered Tom Hanks. But I am very satisfied Tim Robbins played this good role. On the other hand this film didn't have any awards as Academy and Golden Globe. This fact trouble me. I think the most splendid episode in this film: when guards call the roll in the morning everybody exits their rooms expect Andy and most of people suppose that (as me) he committed suicide but he left. All in all nobody can deny that the biggest success was off the director of film Frank Darabont.
The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made, but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

If you haven't watched the movie yet you must have been lying under the stone for the last 26 years! This movie really deserves to be on the top! It's the world's greatest movie ever made and ever will be! I've been watching it at least 15 times and it's never getting boring! It's a masterpiece!

This movie will give you everything!!! Every emotion you can possibly derive from a movie is here, and the ending.... brilliant!!
We can live tough lives, but the human spirit is stronger, seemingly, than anything. There is redemption, hope, and love. All different forms of heartbreak, but beyond all that there is hope, there is love. There is beauty and bliss.

There is something about this movie that brings a sense of joy and gravity. Morgan Freeman is a masterclass. If you're seeking a new perception of life then this is a must watch.
I actually do not had the hobbies of watching classical drama thriller ..But this movie made me stunned ...superb Movie ..Loved it ..go for it..
This is such an incredible movie; if you haven't seen it yet, you are missing out. I hate what happened to the main character, but the ending makes up for all of it.
This is masterpieces, this movie can not be made..any better nor can they .. Direction,Acting, Story, Dialogue 10 out of all 10....hatts of frank darabont..this movie my inspiration..i love this movie
Really dramatic movie. this is a film that is experiencing a combination of patience and determination
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont, and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman A man who plans his escape for 18 years and the only guilty man (Freeman) watches him all along but never comes to know about his plans. 18 years in confinement and still remaining sane is the true definition of someone who calls himself a life loving person. .. His struggle throughout the prison on dealing with inmates and warden and all the other things is depicted in a very surreal fashion. I have now started finding better movies through www.flickstree.com. It not only suggests great movies to watch, it also tells where you can watch the movie online.. Highly recommended.
I decided to watch this movie when I saw it on the top of IMDb list. and even tho there are many great movies this is kind of movie which would be liked by majority of the world.

This is an amazing story about a man during his long-term imprisonment. Morgan Freeman is undoubtedly a great actor and we find him as a supporting actor has been really trendy culture in the modern cinema.

The movie has a really great plot, full of interesting dialogues you need to pause if you blink your eye. It really sticks to your chair.

I think this is my favorite movie so far as well. I just gave 9 out of 10 because I hardly give 10/10 to anything in my life cuz there is always room for improvement.

One of the best movies I have ever seen. I love Stephen King, and I am always excited to see one of his books turned into a movie. Shawshank Redemption is an classic, a movie that everyone should watch. I loved the chemistry between the two main actors. For people who have not read the book (but also for the book lovers) the movie will be an exciting experience till the last scene.Even now, after more than 20 years, modern movies cannot be compared to this one. Morgan Freeman is as always excellent. U get an mix of emotions watching Shawshank redemption. You feel sad, happy, compassionate, all at the same time for prisoners... Brooks as a character and his story-line broke my heart and i still feel the sadness for this character.

I really liked this movie. It had everything i needed. I can fully understand why this is the #1 movie on imdb.
This is something we expect from Morgan Freeman. The simplicity of the story throughout the movie and the sudden change of mood in the climax baffles you to the extent that you re-watch the movie to check if you missed anything. The acting is natural enough to give critics a hard time finding a flaw. The message of remaining patient and not losing hope is mentioned so well that it can motivate you at any day of your life. Loved it. It surely deserves to be at the top for eternity. If you haven't watched it yet then just drop all your work and watch it first. I have now started finding better movies through www.flickstree.com. It not only suggests great movies to watch, it also tells where you can watch movie online.. Highly recommended.
If there is one word which entails the entire message of this film, it is HOPE. Though I have never been a Stephen King fan, this is one story which makes him deserve accolades over and over again. When I was watching the movie, halfway through it, I admit I was bored. And when Tommy (Gil Bellows) was shot, I was like "Who the hell recommended me this movie??". But still I just wanted to get this movie over with, so I watched further. And when that scene comes where the warden throws a pebble at the poster and it tears right through!!! My God!!! My mouth was agape the whole time!!! What a fantastic ending!. The movie indeed has the best finale in cinematic history.(The Usual Suspects comes a close second..). Performances were superb.. (..I still think Tim Robbins deserved a nomination more than Morgan Freeman..). The wardens were damn good as the tormentors. But overall, I believe the story itself deserves a special place in the annals of great cinema!!!
Excellent Movie! A must see for everyone! This is one of the best movies you can see even though it's from 1994 (old, but gold)!
This film is an awesome creation but I don't think it deserves to be in the first place. Don't get offended. It's my personal opinion. If you have watched Prison Break Series (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0455275/), I don't think you will enjoy this movie. Because, The Shawshank Redemption is a kind of shortcut version of Prison Break Series. But, I enjoyed the movie. Thanks
Many folk rate Shawshank Redemption as one of the best films they have ever seen. I'm not so impressed. Firstly, I agree that the absence of special effects is a boon in any 1990s film. Secondly, Freeman and Robbins act well and are well-directed. The storyline, though, lacks subtlety (not in the telling - this is a very well directed film - but as a story) and Dufesne comes over as a kind of everything-he-touches, incarcerated upper-middle class Forrest Gump. The film is suffused with a kind of Manichean morality which tips over too readily into sentimentality (again, despite the best efforts of Freeman and Robbins) and which, ultimately, I found cloying.

Perhaps, though, I'm being too harsh. Is it just that the film is a lot better than the story from which it is taken? Rita Hayworth: eat your heart out?


This movie shows us the power of perseverance. Whenever I felt low , I watched this movie. True masterpiece.
One night when i was browsing through the channels and my dad was doing laundry. The Shawshank Redemption came up and he said it was one of his favorite films. I had no idea why until i watched it. The movies performances, specifically Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, are both incredibly complex and are both Oscar quality. The set of the prison and supporting cast and extras are all masterfully organized. The story is crisp and original, and has deep emotion to it. This movie received 7 Oscar nominations and won none, i believe because Forrest Gump stole all the thunder. But if it were my choice, The Shawshank Redemption would have won Best Picture and is in my mind the best film i have ever seen.
This is one of the best movies I have ever seen it is classic of a life time Just stunning I watched this movie over 20 times One thing I Don t understand is the idiots who gave 1 rating for this movie
Awesome Flick! love how the story line makes perfect sense, Enjoy every scene. motivated me to gain more experience in wanting to be come an Actor and Want to gain more experience in wanting to work with many directors as well.

The ultimate story of redemption - not as a judicial system defines it, but as a redemption of spirit. Really a beautiful film in every way, and one of the greatest of all time.

I don't know what it is about this film but you feel a real connection with Robbin's character, the whole film flows together really nicely plus Morgan Freeman's performance is excellent. The payoff at the end of the film is also really good and I think really makes the film as a whole. A definite must watch if you've got a fair bit of time to set aside - it's a long film - not a very tense film but a quality watch none the less.
Its a masterpiece. never miss this film. The film make me believe about hope a thing more often people ignore, but it is very much useful in real life and facing real life problems.
This film is perfection. Not because it is artistic, or a masterpiece, or even the most original film you'll ever see. It is perfect because of how it makes you feel. It is a story of hope & a story of friendship.

Other themes of resilience, overcoming & rising above oppression etc are all present as well. This is why it resonates with so many people.

If you view this film looking for editing & how shots are framed, you are entirely missing the point. Instead, listen to the story Morgan Freeman's beautiful voice is telling you. Watch how a man oppressed rises above. Watch how 2 men truly grow together in their friendship & quiet ways. Listen to the message of hope. Then wish you had never seen it, so you can go back & watch it for the first time all over again. It is something truly special.
Perhaps the only flaw this movie has is that it may be a bit over-the-top sentimental, but that is the charm of it as well. I enjoy that we can see the good in these people who were always good. It gives us hope that we are all redeemable. Stephen King is a better writer with this type of story. Some of his horror falls into stereotypes.
This has got to be one of my favorite movies of all time. Its thrilling and moving and just perfection. Its a movie to watch before you die for sure !
This movie is perfect in everything that it does and is at this time my favourite movie. I would recommend it to everybody.
A white collar audience identifies with Andy, and fantasizes that if *they* ended up in prison, they too would be able to rise to the top among all the low-lifes and defeat the system, hatching a brilliant plot not only to escape, but escape rich *and* settle scores.

It's entertaining and satisfying, but at the same time, the prison and prisoners are too sanitized, and the guards too 1d and stereotypically evil.

And the coincidental thunderstorm, keeping a suit clean, pressed, and odor-free in a plastic bag tied with a rope in a sewer for all that time, and the complete absence of suspicion from a dozen banks, is a little too implausible.
This movie is a once in a lifetime. Life lesson. It has everything to make you think about your life. I would definitely watch again and with some people even better. I bought this title for blu ray and it is one of my favorites with gladiator.
The story is amazingly written, acting is perfect. Everything about the movie is well made. A Must watch to anyone who likes movies one bit.
An emotional story of how nothing can break the human spirit. A truly deeply effective story about the relationship between a new prisoner and a cynical lifer. Morgan Freeman's performance is one of the best in cinema history. And Tim Robbin's portrayal of a wrongly convicted man is played to a tee. This is one of the most perfect casts ever to be set in a movie. Every actor in the movie plays their part perfectly. This movie is undeniably powerful of how prison can take your life, your freedom but there is one one thing they can't get to, that they can't touch, hope. If you only see one movie for the rest of your life make it this one. You will not be disappointed.
How one can go through his/her life without having seen this film baffles me. On a technical level, the film is essentially flawless. but it succeeds even more on such a greater level. Film was not created for the mind, to be over-analysed and critiqued to the point of removing all feeling and stripping a piece of art down to its individual frames. Film was created for the heart, and there's a reason Shawshank is rated #1 of all time, and will never be beaten. The raw emotion and empathy we feel toward Andy throughout the film says much about the successes of humanity, and more importantly the power of hope. Everyone involved in this film caught lighting in a bottle and made quite possibly the greatest piece of art of the 20th century, if not of all time. Beats Forrest Gump any day of the week.

I don't like this movie because I don't like this movie
This is undoubtedly the best movie i have ever seen..i will never be tired of watching this movie over and over again. the story, the acting of the actors everything is just toooooooooooooooo good.
The Best Film in Top 250 is One of the Great Films I've ever Seen in this Masterpiece you can find a way for life crisis The Shawshank redemption is a film for Relaxing especially end of it when red came to Andy I Think this sense even better than red's Escape but why many of world people love the film? I Think everyone can enjoy it length of film is 142 mins maybe more for a film with no action sense but I think no one end of it but a question for me is why darabont can't make masterpieces like it and green mile rhythm of movie is an important thing for addressed in the Shawshank redemption rhythm don't tire you and characters are not superstars with more ability than a human Andy could find a way for escape because he was an innocent man and don't kill his wife and prison is a character in this film like green mile maybe you loved like or hate this movie but I am one of the fans of darabont's masterpiece
The Shawshank Redemption is a great movie that should be seen by everyone at least once in their life. I am not one for re-watching movies or rereading books, but this movie is one of the few exceptions. I can recite more than half of the lines and it makes my day anytime that I see it is on (shout out to AMC for literally running marathons of it). It has a fulfilling plot that develops well and a great cast all around. To this day, it amazes me that it was not a box office hit.

It's a movie that will make you laugh and cry, a movie that will break your heart one moment and the next you'll be pumping your fist in satisfaction. This is certainly a 10/10 in my books. "Get busy living, or get busy dying".
This is one of Best and finest Movie ever made in the world. How many times you want to Watch... You will like it. I watched this movie in 2005 and today is 2021. Still love this movie. There are several movies made on Prison.. but it is one Unique. If you want to Watch TV series, pls do watch 'Prison Break'. A lots of Love to this Move. Highly recommended.
Havent seen this movie, YOU NEED TO, Best movie of all time.
Such a nice movie it is. Very thought provoking. It taught and gave a lot of HOPE. Shown the beauty of FRIENDSHIP. And most of all proved that THE RESULT OF HARD WORK IS ALWAYS SWEET.
Such a good movie. Everything fell into place. The actors, the ideas, the decor. Everything was awesome. I'll watch it again soon. Seen it two times by now.
I regret that I missed seeing this one on the big screen. Unfortunately, I avoided it because Stephen King wrote it, and I had stereo-typed it as a horror flick. I only decided to see it on VHS (without reading a review) after seeing its incredibly high ranking in the IMDB Top 250.

In fact, this is an amazing story of inner strength and human spirit, more from the side of King that gave us "Stand By Me" than the side responsible for "Cujo".

Very deserving of the Best Picture nomination.
I just watched Shawshank for the nth time tonight (it was on TNT), and realized why I enjoyed the movie so much: it had one of the most cinematic, enthralling, and satisfying conclusion in movie history. Not that I am dismissing the great story, honest and absorbing characters, and memorable scenes (the scene where an entire field full of inmates seemingly hypnotized by Mozart's opera music comes to mind). The ending where all of the warden's sins were conveniently exposed may sound contrived in other movies, but brilliant writing filled with dry wit carried the scene through marvelously (Red: "I'd like to think the last thing that went through the warden's head - other than the bullet - was how in hell Andy Dufresne got the best of him"). And the way the last scene was put together, where Red's narration of 'hopes' melts into a scene where his hopes comes true (when he actually crossed the border and reunited with his old friend), was just magical. It makes me glad that my girlfriend pushed me into watching it ("But it's just a stupid prison movie!" I lamented). How I was wrong!
Just saw this for the first time on TV and I will definitely get a DVD copy for watching again and again. A really great movie! I was mesmerized by Freeman and Robbins acting ability. I felt like they were my personal friends by the end of the movie. I could relate to their inner thoughts and deeds.
I'm a big King fan and I loved the book. This is the best screenplay of King's work in my opinion. Brilliant cast and acting. Exceptional story from one of the great writers of our time.
This movie is a great example of how a person can be wrongly convicted in today's legal justice system. The movie also shows how someone's patience and determination can lead to their success in the future. The movie is a great drama and one of the best movies I have ever seen!
The Shawshank Redemption is one of my all time favorites. Robbins and Freeman in particular, but everyone else as well delivers an outstanding performance in this one. Few films, if any, captures your mind like Shawshank does. I just hope my DVD copy don't wear out...
This film sortta runs along and while your watching you dont know why your watching but you cant stop and then when it finishes you think WOW and have the funny feelin in the pit of your stomach and all up your spine, the feelin you get when you know you have watched a cinema masterpiece, i only wish i had been able to see this in the movies rather than on vhs, but it will soon become an addition to my dvd collection.

The acting is superb and the storyline just gives you hope

This is the greatest movie of all time yet to be made. If you have not seen this movie, consider yourself deprived. You have not lived your life, until you view this movie. Nuff said.
I have no doubt in saying that this is undoubtedly the best movie I have ever seen. "The Shawshank Redemption" is a tale of suffering and despair, but also one of hope and redemption - as the title suggests. The truth of life lies within each one of us - just as it lay within Andy Dufresne - all we have to do is find it. Once you know the truth, it will set you free. The message of this film is that there is always hope, there is always truth, and together these two bring redemption - even in Shawshank!
I am a huge fan of Stephen King, so I had read the story. When I saw it was being made into a movie, I was skeptical at first, as many movies do not live up to the stories or novels they are derived from. Well this one was far better than the story.
I loved this movie and have watched it over 50 times in a 2 year period; I believe it should have won an academy award, but its my guess that the "bull queer" scenes removed any chance of that. The dialog between Andy and Red was spellbinding at times and the interplay between them and the other guys in their clique made it seem like being in prison could be enjoyable. My wife hated the movie because of the scenes containing violence and I have to admit that some of them could have been left out, the movie really didn't need them to be successful or appear real. I originally thought I would hate this movie and didn't see it till it was on HBO TV. The other movies that come close to being most watched are Titanic and a comedy called Midnight run.
I can't remember how I ended up watching "The Shawshank Redemption" it's been many years. I can't remember how many times I have watched it. I am not sure what "new" I can say about this movie, so let me say something simple. What I say will make sense to musicians and music lovers specifically those who adore Beethoven. This is what is to movies, what is Beethoven's String Quartet No. 15 Movement III "Heiliger Dankgesang" is to music. Thanks. I thought of keeping it simple, but it seems there is a rule that I should write 10 lines. So let me say if not for this movie and of course Beethoven's "Heiliger Dankgesang" I would have committed suicide.
One of the most loveable, likeable, adorable movies, which has recall value forever. it leaves a positive impact on the viewer. I was moved by this simple movie which depicts hope, friendship and redemption,
Highly reccommended. Best if you watch by yourself. I cried at the end, and I never cry.

Love the friendship between Andy and Red, great performances by both. The plot moves along perfectly, I felt what the characters felt. Rivals "Seven" for one of the best endings I have ever seen.
I was stunned when I saw The Shawshank redemption for the first time. Now, more than almost 20 times later, I still can't believe the Academy awards jury, how could they not think this the best movie of all times. So moving, so genial, so breathtaking, just great! The first time I saw the movie I 'didn't really intend to watch it, but as it came out, I couldn't stop watching. You really feel for Andy, you really get involved. And than the ending. Who could have thought.....
This is a story with drama, injustice, pain and real friendship. Both performances ( Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins ) were wonderful, they have made the movie even more interesting!!! No doubt, one of my favourites so far...really it is just to watching it too many times with no possibility of getting bored!!!
All my friends had the same reaction to this movie as I did when first viewing it .. how come I never heard more about it? It was great! The acting was fantastic. The storyline flowed perfectly. The writing and editing couldn't have been better. Clearly, if not pitted against "Forrest Gump", "Little Women", "Nell", "Quiz Show" and "Pulp Fiction" (wow, what a line-up), I'm sure this movie would have won more awards. Morgan Freeman was great, and Tim Robbins was nothing short of amazing. If you like acting, this movie is a must!
This is the best movie ever made. If you haven't seen it yet, stop doing whatever it is that you are doing, go to your local video store, shell out the three or four dollars to rent the videotape or DVD, go home, put some popcorn in the microwave, put the movie in, turn on your home entertainment center, sit on the couch, and WATCH THIS MOVIE. If you have friends who haven't seen it yet, tell them to come over and watch it with you. You will not be disappointed. They will not be disappointed. This is the best movie ever made.
There is no doubt in my mind that this is a very powerful and important motion picture. But, due to the R rating, there are certain situations that are somewhat shocking in nature. A few cuts might have helped move the story along, too. Otherwise, an ok film.
Someone please tell me why this film is number two when it has a 9.0 user rating. Perhaps the mafia has an insider here to keep the Godfather number 1. Anyway this film deserves to be number 1 for so many reasons. Just see it and you will know why.
The Shawshank Redemption made me spend a good evening when I watched it. Though quiet common, the plot has a good rythm. The beginning of the movie is even very common, with the scene of a murder and the following trial. The story in the prison goes rather slowly. The actors are good, especially Morgan Freeman. It is a good entertainment, but nothing more.
This film is an absolute beauty, but no-one seems to have picked up on the music. It's a fantastically atmospheric and sparsely written piano/strings score by Thomas Newman, and does exactly what a good film score should do: enhances the atmosphere 110 percent without ever intruding on, or detracting from, the visuals. Quality stuff!
Really shocked by the true feelings of this film, it is worthy of a long-lasting good film, other feelings, I believe that you will experience the natural experience.
Fear can hold you prisoner. hope can set you free. a strong man can save himself. a great man can save another. You know some birds are not meant to be caged, their feathers are just too bright.
Listen man I really liked this movie but the cheese grater scene was just weird. Other than that I really liked this movie. It is unforgettable and yeah
Best movie... I cried at the end... Watching in 2019 still AWSOME... Masterpiece
I loved every moment and line from this this movie right from the opening scene to the end credits.the movie is about andy dufresne a man convicted of murder who is put in shawshank state prison.He strikes up a friendship with the prison fixer red.After having a rough time in the prison he manages to make it in prison becoming very successful with the library and with the guards and the warden.There is the an arrival of a new inmate which turns the plot right around,leading up to the greatest ending ever seen in a movie.i highly recommend seing this movie,in fact go see it right now!. I promise you will love it(im not lying!).thankyou, now go watch it!.
It's was good , have a very good message of never loose hope even in bad times.

It is well ahead of time when it was made.. seeing it after 40 year still worth it ..
When I first read the reviews of this movie I was stunned but later I thought why not to atleast give it a try and I think it was a great decision . I never thought that Andy which felt like a cry baby would do things but he did it .

Acting Acting is the best Complete masterpiece really

Filmography I think can't describe it in words .

Conclusion It brings tears of happiness and also give all of us a hope

Just don't waste your time reading reviews just see it . It will be one of your best decisions of your life .
Quite good but nowhere near as good as scooby doo 2 monsters unleashed
One of the greatest movies of all time, definitely recommend if you haven't seen it. It's definitely something special.
Totally flawless original movie worth watching its one of those movies that just leaves you feeling good and satisfied
This movie is by far the best movie i've seen in my life, i'm only 18 mind, but still, excellent, i would recommend that anyone who hasn't seen it watch it. The actors really play convincing parts, even the minor roles are played out well. I really can't say a bad thing about this movie. I wouldn't want to spoil the movie for someone who hasn't seen it. All i can say is watch it!! this movie should not in anyway be turned down because "it is just a prison movie" this movie is much more than this...

It is really cheep as well, if you want to buy it in HMV i bought it from there for Â£1.99 which i thought was an absolute bargain!! go buy it for yourself now if you haven't got it!!
Nothing else to say, just well done. Amazing cast of actors
The movie is really but the 1st half is too slow, the movie is not meant for those who like adventurous movie.
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.

This movie was very better than i expected:) i love morgan friman and i want to see se7en tonight. join me please:)
One of my favorite all time movies!

I've watched it at least 12 times and enjoy it as much each time I see it. One of the best adaptations and truest to the original Stephen King stories that I have seen. The other being "The Green Mile".

The combination of musical score with the well written and delivered lines of Morgan Freemans narration still can well the tears up in my eyes. His narration and acting in this film surely should have garnered him an Academy Award! He's an American Icon in my book. Superbly written, superbly directly, superbly filmed, and superbly acted.

You'll never be disappointed to have this DVD in your collection.
Nevers gets old great family classic rigth there ,,,great movies keep it going

Woow, what a movie, what a story! I have seen this 3 times, second time I was around 20 and I can say this movie has so much to say. Much more after 10 years I am almost 30. I have learned from this much, at least do not stop to sending letters... There is always hope. The only excuse that this did not win awards is the Forrest. Zihuatanejo.

This beautiful film from Frank Darabont is an absolute joy to behold. a wonderful blend of drama, warmth, sadness and joy. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman have never been better, giving performances that should have won the relevant oscars hands down, but they and Frank Darabont(director) were absolutley robbed on Oscar night. This is a film that deserves to be watched again and again.

Let's not forget Thomas Newman's moving score that captures the film's mood perfectly, where you can close your eyes and feel the emotions running through your whole body. This film is also a rarity in that this is probably the best film adaption of a Stephen King story since The Dead Zone.

The Perfect Film? I think perhaps it is.
Overall this film hits every mark: Great acting, an engaging story arc, and wonderful character development and portrayal.
A must seen movie that shows you the greatness of cinema.
I saw this movie 1 year before but movies like this never get out of your mind and same happened here i have not forgot anything and will never forget this one.this is a rare masterpiece not to be missed by all.Everyone should watch this movie at least once in their life because this has a much big impact.i love this and is truly one of the greatest artwork in history of cinema. Do watch it with your family.

The concept is often used interchangeably with that of film reviews. A implies a recommendation aimed at consumers,
The movie is about an imprisoned man who finds solace in the rarest of places and makes him deal with the harsh truths of life in a hostile environment.The movie grips you from the start and by the end of it you wonder of the innumerable things the movie relates to you with. The actors justify their characters with some remarkably awestruck performances with Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins to be some of the notable ones. Frank Darabont depicts the writing of Stephen King quite exceptionally with some amazing shots apart from a few glitches here and there the whole movie just stands out apart from the rest of the movies.

Good movies can always be read in various ways after being watched. For example, "Redemption of Shawshank" contains freedom and hope, friendship and persistence, dreams and pursuits, God helpers, etc. There are so many meanings, the wide range of interpretations, and the far-reaching impact, well deserved. In addition, on Rhett's evaluation of prison life: At first we hated it, then we liked it, and in the end we found that it was inseparable from it, and it had the understanding and meaning of institutionalization and social identity in sociology. In short, no matter how to interpret, the pessimist can always find strength in this film, let the optimist go more calmly, and make the pessimist full of power. This is perhaps the deepest meaning in the film "Redemption of Shawshank".
When I had finished watching the movie,I was excited and wanted to watch it again.I like Andy ,for his talent and his wisedom . And the most important thing that I like is his spirit-never giving up.
"It's a must-see movie for men. "Everybody says that. But by distinguishing only from gender, the film will be narrow. "Shawshank's Redemption" breaks through the confines of a man's film, with an almost incredibly warm tone, and the film's greatest theme is "Hope." Classic movies are called classic, because they're all doing the same thing - let you appreciate the beauty of hope from a different perspective.

At that year's Academy Awards ceremony, it was covered up by the soaring "Forrest Gump", and with the passage of time, the position of the film in more and more people's hearts has surpassed "Forrest Gump". Whenever the reality makes me feel so tired that I feel powerless, I can turn over this disc and regain strength. There is no doubt that this film ranks in the top three movies that men must watch! Looking back on that classic line: "some people's wings are so brilliant that even the darkest prison in the world can't besiege them for a long time!"
This is a film that can be studied in film school as it's built with originality and classic narrative structure.

It's film that everyone may like as it dig in the quest for liberty and dignity that we all look for.
It's very very difficult to choose an all-time favourite film, but if i have to, this would be it. It has everything, the plot is amazing, a lot of memorable scenes or dialogues, characters are super well written, defined and acted. All departments of the film are brilliant. MASTERPIECE.
Great storyline. Great casting, overall a great movie (piÃ¨ce de rÃ©sistance).

All time fav. Movie i feel like i lived their life, could not be better than this.
I am very disapointed to see that this very average american hollywood film is rated as high as #2 on the top 250.

Seeing as the many dozens of reviewers has written before me I will only state why this film qualifies as one of the most overrated films of history.

The ONLY thing this movie has is the story and the cutting filmnarratology and even this does not stand out from the rest very much. Based on a mediocre book, this film is a good display of craftsmanship, not art. The way the film tells its story is not creative or new in any way, instead it follows existing hollywood tradition by the book.
Powerful message well acted and conveyed. Relevant. One of my top films!

Extremely well written script, great performances by cast and story all leading to a deeply emotional climax!

In short, I can say The Shawshank is one of the best dramas of all time!
Really good film with good acting, emontions and one hell of a good story strongly recommended
Can watch again is my classification of a good movie and you can watch this one again

Remember when I saw it the first time I knew it would be a favorite. absolutely awesome movies that everyone should see. And was probably the first time I got my eyes Morgan Freeman, he's such an amazing actor, so if you like him then you'll love the movie.It's a real Friday movie and fits like a first date film. Remember my ex was completely taken of it. never heard of it. before we put it.
I'm sorry I don't mean to offend people who like this film but what on earth is all the fuss about over this film it is nothing compared to The Godfather and yet people vote it as second to the number 1!? The Shawshank Redemption has a relatively simple plot ,dull camera work the script is full of soppy language (thanks to the overrated Steven King)that just isn't particularly clever in any way.The atmosphere of 'prison' is totally unrealistic all the characters are wimps.The only good element is Morgan Freeman because he's a good actor.There aren't any clever twists-for instance the 'mystery' of what is in the box at the end of the film is really unoriginal. Please feel free to argue with me over this but come on people step back and look at the film what is it made up of? Then look at The Godfather look at what that is made up of - Brill cast, excellent plot, damn good script, good directing and camera work everything is perfect then look back at the Shawshank redemption its just at a completely different level. Its quite ridiculous really.
A movie that I think is very good, but unfortunately I am too young. I didn't see it at the beginning, but now I don't think it is against it. It is really a classic and never out of date
Tears were almost coming.Wanted to cry but couldn't.What a film.My rating 10/10
This movie is one of the best movies I have ever seen no matter who you are you should love this movie and if you havn't seen it, see it! Tim Robbins gives a performance that is probly one of the most unforgetable also Morgan Freeman gives just as good of a performance. This movie has no flaws and it is SO good

Best movie ever made. Finest of all, the engagement with the characters in the film is just simply amazing. Too good!

Why rating this movie a 1/10 or up till 5/10? I don't get it people. Maybe this isn't one of your favorites but why rating it so low?
Honestly, I don't think I could ever say there's a greatest movie of all time but a collection of movies worth considering. This is definitely belongs there. I've seen this movie over 100 times, and it always moves me. It's powerful & beautiful movie about the power of hope, friendship, revenge, and of course redemption. It's timeless and relatable and full of life quotes.
Excellent movie ðŸ¿ I suggest to watch it alone this is not the movie that you enjoy with your friends but seeing it alone will make you to connect more to the story . Your brain will analyse the every detail which you might miss with your friends
BEAUTIFUL STORY.Top-notch performances, exceptional cinematography.Simply marvelous.
This film is absolutely everything. Ever word came out was spoken like a true prodigy. This film had drama, emotions, amazing plot and almost everything I want in a movie. During these 2 hours and 22 minutes, i felt like living in a completelydifferent universe. A-grade movie making at its best.
This is a very good movie and it has one if the best storyline and plot I have watched this movie so many times and I highly recommend this app to all


This movie is love to me after watching this movie i am so satisfied this movie deserved the no 1 movie of imdb.


It is one of those crossover movies that ends up on everyone's favorite list. I own a copy and revisit it a couple times a year.
A fantastic movie that rewards the viewer with immense satisfaction after many scenes of suffering and tragedy. A great movie to watch if you enjoy emotional and gripping stories.

Rating: A+
I don't know how to describe it but it's just beyond expectations
I watch movies to glean life lessons. And while the ending of this movie puts the capstone on with Andy's lesson on Hope. There are so many other lessons that this movie displays; Perseverance, Optimism, the power of Humor. Shawshank Redemption proved itself to be the top rated movie in this database, I love it and too anyone who needs a movie for the ages, look no further then The Shawshank Redemption.
I saw this film many years ago. From this film I got to know for the first time what is acting and what is an actor. If I had got more than 10 ratings on IMDb, I would have given this film.
Recommended/ What a great story. Love it and I always watch it.
This American classic addresses issues of the prison system and corruption from powerful positions. The question proposed in this movie tackles the topic of if prisons are designed for rehabilitation or not? This movie has a beautiful progression building to a crescendo leading to the back end of the movie. This film also contains a fantastic side story that will tear at your heart strings. This movie is written to make you wish for freedom just as the characters yearn for. This movie is a must watch classic with great writing and a great cast to carry out the script.
I don't have words to explain how best this movie is !!
Shawshank Redemption is one of my all time favorites. This is the kind of film that I find myself watching at least three times a year since it first hit the screens. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are quite dynamic along with the rest of the cast. I was fortunate to film another movie in the same location as the final scene of Shawshank and it was quite a special beach. The movie claims it was in Mexico but the beach was in St. Croix.
It's not that good. For me it is average. I mean, there other dramas I'd prefer to see before repeating this movie.
Nice movie must watch. Nice drama and story of this movie .

Awesome movie! A small preview of what life means behind of prison accusing you for something that never done by you.
This movie is great Ita my forever movie .. I will watch it always
About the movie! Best movie in history! It was incredible. You should definitely watch.
Awesome movie so much lessons for a single movie

am just adding word to submit the review
The Shawshank Redemption. I watched this absolute Gem of a movie in 2021 for the first time... And it immediately has to be one of the best and among my favorites of all time... The Characters, the acting, the cinematography everything is soo great... Tim Robbins (as Andy Dufresne) and Morgan Freeman (as Red) deliver absolute masterclass performances and make us fall in love with them and root for their friendship, hope and the life behind the bars against the system... No fancy cinematography, action, graphics yet Frank Darabont was able to put together this masterclass more than 26 years ago... There's nothing about the movie that hasn't already been said... Rightfully maintaining it's place in the top IMDB list... The Shawshank Redemption is a treat to watch again and again and will be for decades to come....
Referring to Tay Ninh, everyone must immediately think of a sunny and windy midland land with a hot heat, but not so that Tay Ninh does not create for itself its own beauty, from famous places. famous sights such as Ba Den Mountain historical monument nearly 1 km high, where the source of Caodaism - Tay Ninh Holy See, the famous Tay Ninh specialties not only in the country but also spread to the country You like cake soup Trang Bang, and especially the dumplings dried desserts and salt in Tay Ninh. Proud to be one of the children of Trang Bang district, Tay Ninh province, Nhu Binh Salt Cake Factory has been maintaining and promoting the quintessence that the ancients left through the products made from rice paper. drying dew and salt ....

Don't have words to explained awesome cool super duper hit hat kat amazing sizzler my gosh I watch 12 times.
Awsome super duper Fantastic marwslous amazing story oh my gosh climax blast wow ðŸ˜²
Amazing,Mindblowing ! I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and it gets better with every showing.
I'm not going to spoil anything here but I'll just say that this movie was perfect. I must say it lives up to its acclaim and is one of those good examples of corruption.
Simply a masterpiece, i was a fan of Morgan Freeman since long years, but watching The Shawshank is something different, stories, life, prison, concipracy, words said never forgotten... For me, my best complete movie ever with stunning narration and end.. What to say ? All what you need is here..
Have seen this film a countless times each viewing seemed to always put me at an awe of how masterly crafted every aspect of the movie. From the superb script, excellent pacing of scenes and stupendous directing and cinematography as well as acting from all of those involved. Don't call yourself a critic or a movie buff if haven't seen this...
I read a review once that said "If you are not even feeling slightly uplifted by the end of this movie, you are made of stone." I couldn't have said it better. Some scenes may not sit well with the easily disturbed, but there you are.

Go see it. 9/10.

It's simply the best film I've ever seen. The highest standard of film making. Everything from the acting, to the direction, writing, pace... it's all perfect. There's a fantastic core story accompanied by sub-plots, twists and turns, which keep you captivated throughout the film. It's perfect.
I realize it every time I see this movie... This is the best movie I have ever seen! It's just great! I mean, the story is strong and so are the actors. The music fits perfectly in the movie and it's one of the most clever movies I've seen. After seeing this movie for the first time in '96 I thought WOW! I went to rent it and watched it again. It got my attention that it was based on a novel. So I ordered the novel. It's my favorite book now. I must have read it more then ten times. After that I saw the other stories were filmed too. So I went to rent them too. They are very good too, but The Shawshank Redemption is the best. 5 Years later I'm one of Stephen King's and Tim Robbins' biggest fans in the world. Everybody who hasn't seen it yet: take my advise and watch it. You'll share my opinion: it's the best movie you'll ever see. Now it's finally available on DVD in Holland too, so I can watch it with hopefully lots of extras...
You have already watched this, right? It is really easy to understand the love for this movie. I'll admit, when it comes to movie adaptations of books, the book is always better. How can it not be? You get way more detail than could be crammed into a two-hour movie. However, I still thoroughly enjoyed this adaptation. Yes, it does deviate from the short a little with character changes and omissions, but I don't think this film could have been any better. I am in line with the ten-star reviews that I'm seeing and the only reason I am not giving this parable for hope a ten myself is because I don't as a rule. Hope, aspiration, fighting the system, justice and humanism against the tyranny of the mainstream society/religion. This is the film.
The other day we watched the movie "Escape from Shawshank" (1994) with a friend, which I want to tell you about today.

The story is about Andy Dufresne, who was put in Shawshank Prison (one of the strictest prisons), for the murder of his wife and her lover, which he never admitted at trial... It would seem that the plot of the drama is not new, but despite this, the film is really interesting, so we watched it with pleasure, especially since the cast of the film is wonderful.

We liked the movie "Escape from Shawshank", so I recommend it to you, too, if of course you haven't watched this movie yet.

Thank you for your attention and see you soon!
I can't tell what it is. You just sit and watch the entire movie. You look, you look, you look. And you worry. The film is a chronicle, a chronicle of the life of a very smart man who ended up in Shawshank prison for life. He experiences everything, different events happen. Here is a drama with tears, and a comedy with smiles and a tense ending. This film combines everything that has been invented before. The film is the ideal that everyone aspires to.

10/10.
Simply stated, this may be the best movie of all time. The story is infinitely engaging, the acting is impeccable, the cinematography is marvelous, and the score is wonderful. It is probably the most well rounded film you can hope to watch.

I saw it first in 1995 on video and was amazed that it did not win a single Academy award. It certainly should have. Do yourself a favor. If you really want to see a true work of cinematic art, see this movie.

FOR THE NAY SAYERS: They say that if you are young and NOT liberal you don't have a heart, and that if you are old and NOT conservative, you don't have a brain. Well, no matter what age you are, if you do NOT enjoy this movie you don't have a heart or a brain!
The body language as well as the character of the godfather of the film are included and we see his beautiful acting. This film shows the prestige of a powerful person and at the same time Badright.
Hope is a good thing and maybe the best of things. And no good thing ever dies.

It takes a strong man to save himself, and a great man to save another.

Get busy living, or get busy dying.

The film's Best film in the history. This film have sad story without spoilers in my opinion you should seen thes film. Because have perfect story The Best aktars and have many Best things of course you like this film.
One of the best films of all time. A source of inspiration and emotion. A reminder that no matter how dire life is, hope always survives.
If perfection had to be defined through a movie, this would be it starting from the acting to direction to screenplay, everything, you name it and its here, done perfectly its almost as if God personally guided the people making this movie :)
Having seen such a movie again and again, you subconsciencly begin to look for flaws or errors that will somehow lift it off its pedestal, just so you can put your already tiresome mind at ease and not give it another thought. But with this movie, im still looking, so i'm beginning to got used to the fact that this movie will, and more than likely, always be jumping to the top of my mind whenever i try and define 'what a movie CAN be'.

It's already a classic....
This film is without a doubt, one of the all time classics. It has everything - drama, comedy, suspense. Watching this film leaves you with a good feeling - it makes you realise that true friendship is hard to find but something to really cherish. The story of Andy & Red (The 2 main characters), and how they go about living in the prison is moving, gritty and very realistic. I recommend this film to everyone, young and old, it will appeal to everyone. Its a brilliant film capped by a brilliant ending. 10/10

I first saw this film some years ago and it left a deep impression on my mind. Recently I made a list of films that I had seen before that I would like to see again. Top of my list was The Shawshank Redemption. All I could remember of the film was that it was about 2 men in Prison BUT that it had made a deep impression on me and I wanted to see it again. I got to see it again and I was not disappointed. It was on local TV and even all the ads couldn't spoil it. I was entranced by the two chief characters who were superb and also by the secondary characters. As the final credits rolled I felt as though I could watch it again and pick up on things that I had missed. I've never felt like that before about any film. I haven't checked as to whether this movie received any Oscars but it certainly should have for the characters, for the story, for best film and so on. I highly recommend this movie. Definitely 10/10. I'm off to find it on DVD.
This was a movie I wanted to see for some time, and when I finally got to see it it didn't disappoint me. On the contrary, it was the best movie I've ever seen.

Very good story. This is a movie I'll watch a lot more... the best ever!
The Shawshank Redemption is my favorite movie of all time. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are handing out the best performances of there life in this film. Its about how a banker named Andy Dufrense (Tim Robbins) goes through prison. And along the way becomes best friends with Red(Freeman). This story is all about hope and friendship. This films has several very moving scenes. From the rooftop scene to the ending (the best ending ever). And the movie kinda has 4 endings. (4 best endings ever). Should have taken home best picture, original score, screenplay (Frank Darabont), and cinamitography oscars. But was over looked by forrest gump (which is good, but not better then shawshank) and pulp fiction (still yet to see). "Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies"... thats damn right.

10/10 A+
One of the greatest movies of all time! The back bone of the film is the relationship between the two characters played by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman(both, great acting) .I like the way their friendship is depicted.How it evolves and stuff.Couldn't be more similar to life!Anyway it is a kickass movie!No-one should regret the time they spent on this!
In my opinion it's the best movie ever they all did the best performance
Beautiful, fantastic , mind-blowing, heartwarming,plot-twist
This film in my opinion is one of the best ever made. When I went to the video store one time in 1999, I was in the mood for a drama. It was a toss-up between Shawshank and some other movie. I chose Shawshank. The plot outline on the back of the movie box was very intriguing. It is most definetly the best movie I have ever picked out at a video store. I liked the movie so much that I went and bought it the next day. Few movies have as much talent and drive as this one. Two of the best actors in my opinion, Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. What an excellent acting duo. It's a shame that this movie lost Best Picture to 'Forest Gump'. Gump was good, but this one was much better. I gave it a 10. What a great movie!
For me this film is about as close to perfection as I can imagine. Somehow a first time director's adaptation of a fairly average and forgotten novella by a horror writer has turned out to be one of the most beloved movies ever made. Watching this film is truly a magical and life affirming experience, which profoundly affected me after seeing it for the first time. Andy's journey as he crawls through "a river of s*** and comes out clean on the other side" as red puts it, has become an inspiration to millions of people. The film's central message, that hope can lead us by the hand through the darkest times in our lives, and give us the courage to go on, is surely one of the most eloquent and beautiful sentiments ever delivered through the media of cinema. This film has become a modern phenomenon, a cultural benchmark, and has proved the incredible power that movies still posses.
If there is a movie which defines "masterpiece" this will be it. It has been a long time I saw a movie which really surprised me. You will never know what is about to come. And when it ends, you find the glimmering shine of hope. If this movie released any year other the year of the Forrest Gump I am sure it would have swept the Academy Awards.

I usually don't like watching a decade old movie, but since this movie, i have already gone through a dozen on the top 250 list. Morgan Freeman is great as usual. So is Tim Robbins and James Whitmore. The whole cast brings alive the spirit of the movie. And my suggestion to all who haven't seen it already would be- add this to the top of your to-do-list.

Fan of such Hope-giving and Inspiring films: Shashank
I can't help but watch and love the Shawshank Redemption EVERY time it appears whilst channel hopping, how the hell was this not a box office success? Just goes to show, box office isn't everything. This is movie perfection.
This film is a film which is moving, dramatic and emotional. It has characters being introduced all throughout the film and makes the film never ending, like Andy's sentence. Freeman and Robbins are both talented actors and bring to the film their own qualities, you never get tired of seeing them. I first saw 'The Green Mile' before i saw this and thought that Frank Darabont made the most moving film ever, but i was wrong. 'The Shawshank Redemption' has scenes of laughter, sad and shear disgust, this is what makes it so powerful. This film is number one in my DVD collection and never get tired of watching it. I honestly recommend it to anyone who likes a late night movie full of emotion.
It is a movie that enthralls my mind and soul, as every time i thought about each & every moment of this wonderful movie.

I say this movie is a journey, not because its a long movie, but it explains a definition of an act of HOPE. Yes, hope is the sweetest weapon of your arsenal that wins you unconquered battles of your life. Of course, it inspires you to danger the risks in achieving something, but yet you go for it.

A fascinating story with an unbelievable & realistic twist that betters the moral & belief in yourself. Mind boggling performances from the actors and a remarkable direction that did 100% justice to story.

A TRUE CLASSIC............
This movie was faithful to the excellent Stephen King novella it came from:"Rita Hayward and the Shawshank Redemption". In spite of injustice, corruption, and brutality, prisoners were able to rise above this and form true friendships. They were able to put real love into action toward each other. When the protagonist, played brilliantly by Tim Robbins, locks himself in the warden's office and plays an exquisite aria from a Mozart opera, the whole prison stops and listens. All are moved by such beauty, beauty they haven't experienced in a long time, if ever. It is my favorite scene from any movie I have ever seen.
The Shawshank Redemption improves with every watch, so much so that u almost imagine your place or your role in the prison and try to understand how that lifestyle would affect you. Frank Darabont may all the praise for adapting this novella into such a masterpiece fall on your much deserved shoulders because your style of filmmaking is unique in these times of unsubtle blockbusters. The background to this story is probably too well loved for me to go into but Tim Robbins delivers a painful, regretful, intelligent performance that u cant see coming from any other star. Morgan Freemans brings so much comfort and bitterness to his turn as red that as u reach the end of the film when his smile starts to show and they embrace u know u have just sat through something special. An enriching experience. 10/10
Possibly the greatest movie i have ever seen and definitely the best in this genre and storyline . great cinematography, acting (specially by Morgan Freeman) & directing . the best thing i loved about this film was the switching of the narrator and leading character from time to time . another great thing about the film is the direction of photography and filming. also great adapted screenplay . watch this film alone and with attention and it will really get you involved and thinking and thats the beauty of it. watching it once wont give you much of the taste of it so its best if you watch it at least a few times . Definitely an urgent . don't continue with your life until you haven't seen this.
Their are two great things in this world muhammed ali and the shawshank redemption.It is without doubt the best film ever made.A bold statement you say well watch it and then tell me it isnt.Why is it the greatest well thats hard to put a finger on.For one thing the acting superb robbins and freeman give standout performances.The sweeping score and look add to that.Stir in a brillant uplifting story evil villians and a great twist and shawsank can bellow out i am the greatest.
I don't get how this movie could be the best rated in the IMDb. Sure it's good, maybe great, but come on, there are so many movies more meaningful, more groundbreaking, more shaking... That's a clever story with an amazing end. Actually, it's probably one of the happiest movie end. Maybe that's why people like it so much. Sure there is some message about justice, perseverance and courage, but all in all very classic and easy, not to say shallow. So I rated it 7 as an efficient entertaining movie. Nothing really special in the photography, nor in the acting, nor in the staging, nor politically. No complexity in the feelings nor in the characters. Really, it does deserve good critics, but certainly not being ranked best movie ever. I suppose the shawshank fanatics would also give the litterature nobel prize to Stephen King?

Have seen this film at least 20 times. Still as good as the first time. Classic indeed.

The Shawshank Redemption is a perfect film in every aspect. It has a beautiful score (Thomas Newman) and amazing cinematography. The acting is brilliant and the movie stands up well to repeat viewings. The only minor negative that I have for the film is that the main characters don't seem to age enough in the 20 or 30 years that they're in prison. But this is just a minor quibble. Don't let it deter you from watching this movie. It is a great story and every household should have this in their collection.
This movie has always fascinated me and I have always counted it as one of my favorite movies if not the favorite. I was pleased therefore to find it #2 at IMDb top rated movies of all time. No matter how hard I think I can't really find much fault with it at all. Characters, main and secondary, are all fantastically well played, the plot unfolds at just the right tempo, the surroundings are as realistic as it gets etc etc. The whole movie, though set i a prison with all the violence and dreary atmosphere it brings, still left me with a positive feeling afterward. It's the kind of movie that doesn't leave you, you remember it over and over again with a smile on your lips.

10/10

Cyberik
How did this film not win the Oscar.one of everybody best films ever. The acting was superb.
Years go by, and this is still my favorite movie of all time! Everything is perfect! Image, sound, history, message, really everything! I almost can't putt in words my feeling about this movie! Every time I watch "Shawshank Redemption" I cried, I laugh, it's just a motion of feels! Believe me, if you love cinema, you really need to watch this movie, because, there's something in him, that makes you believe that you can do everything, every problem is your life, you can get it thought!

"Shawshank Redemption" is the perfect example that, life.....is really a movie!
At the beginning i thought, this would be an another annoying movie, but now i've a totally different opinion. I saw it yesterday, it was amazing, absolutely amazing! I've got to add this one to my favourite list of movies, which is very short ;): (Finding Forrester, Shawshank, Adrenalin: Fear the rush)

The Shawshank should be on the 1st place in the "Top 250", that's the right place for it! 1 of 10, i gave it 10! It's fair enough!
This film is definitely in my top 10 of all time list. It is a powerful story and probably the best movie about friendship ever made. But hands down the one element that makes it a great movie is Morgan Freeman's performance. I've seen this movie a dozen times or more, and his narration never fails to hook me.
A solid script that moves with sufficient pace to maintain engagement yet lingers on details without losing interest. This film uses narration in a way that almost becomes peripheral - you are focused on the drama yet the voice-over adds depth and explanation without distraction. An ultimately feel-good film that takes you though a gut- wrenching narrative. One of the few films that contains unwholesome language and content in a manner that seems 'natural' and not simply for effect (Billy Elliot is a classic example of such a film). No matter your favourite genre, if you haven't seen this then put aside any preconceptions and be prepared for thorough entertainment.
This was one of the greatest movies i have ever seen. Great story. Great character development. It is a story of hope for the ages. I thought it has some elements of reality in all of our lives. Red accepts he is stuck in prison. Tim Robbins character is amazing and is the focal point of the story. He exemplifies many emotions throughout the film.
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give possibly the best performances of their careers in this adaptation of a Stephen King story. The build is slow but the payoffs are plentiful in this prison drama about friendship and redemption. This is also one of those great movies that get better with each viewing.
This movie has to be one of the very best films i've seen in my lifetime. I am usually not that fond of drama films but the portrayal of the characters and the amazing script made it a perfect translation from the Stephen King book. Morgan Freeman gives one of his best performances in this movie and actually makes you believe him as a jail smuggler, better than Chris Rock in the Longest Yard ever did. The cinematography is brilliant showing the sheer scale of this old decaying prison. The movie may not have received any Academy Awards (the show was stolen by Forrest Gump that year) but it still remains to be one of the best films around. If your looking for a deeper movie more than you're typical action flick, this will provide what you were looking for. Go out and rent it, heck go and buy it because you'll want to watch it time and time again.

I saw The Shawshank Redemption only a few weeks ago, while I knew it was number 1 on IMDb Top 250. Knowing the main idea of the movie, I couldn't imagine how this movie can be at the top. I watched it on TV and this was one of those rare films which excited me so much in front of my TV. I will not talk about the acting or the directing because so many reviewers did a better review about that before me but I will just add that what I find so unique to this movie is that he is RIGHT from the beginning to the end. You feel so moved all along the movie and when the movie is over I have this impression that it was a movie quiet "simple" shared with a feeling of having saw something that is a way higher others movies. And that is what make this movie extraordinary.
This is a fantastic movie! A strong friendship in a tough prison, a strong movie in the feelings, and a critical comment to American prisons. And a surprising ending!

Fantastic play from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, in every way a great movie.

Andy Dufresne: Mr. Hadley, do you love your wife?

10 out of 10!
What can I say this movie is the top of it's class. The Story is great the acting is great . You really care about these characters. Morgan Freeman's performance is the glue that holds the movie together and Tim Robbin's breaks out in this movie showing that he is a great actor. If you like prison films this is the best!
The first time I watched this movie was around 10 years ago and since then I forgot its name. two years ago it crossed my mind but I wasn't able to remember the name and i tried every possible way to remember it. finally I got it and I can't describe my feelings at that moment. Since then I watched it for more than 10 times, and I will watch it again. Can any movie beat it?absolutely no What can make sucha movie incredible? everything I rarely cry for a realistic events or for a fiction ones but I cry every time I watch this movie. Is is better than the godfather? out of question Is it gonna be forgotten? No way The movie didn't win any Oscar! who cares
Something about this film, whenever it comes on television it's hard not to watch until the end.
I have to say: Yes, it is a great movie, but it came directly from a short story wrote by Stephen King, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption...so if you read the story after the movie you'll find that basically they use it as a script because there is not modification at all. So the movie was good but did not received any big price due to in this year it was in the same Oscar with Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction. The story is very dramatic and started when a very smart bank vice president is sent to prison because was found guilty in court to kill his wife and her lover. In prison he would be facing very strong situations as a smart accountant he is bringing a new face to the prison and to his life.

The director Frank Darabont also was in charge of the Script.
Timeless classic and doesn't have to brag itself to be known as the most riveting drama of all time, a brilliant main role combination of Freeman and Robbins, exceptionally finished. I think It was a very good movie because the story was very catching, and the film was very exciting because I got him very passionate continue to watch from beginning to end. The film, in my opinion deserve a 10/10. It's an excellent movie, it's a movie you must see. It's an engagingly simple, good-hearted film, with just enough darkness around the edges to give contrast and relief to its glowingly benign view of human nature. Morgan Freeman, who is simply a great actor, a man who has never struck a false note in his career, both narrates this tale and anchors it with his authoritative playing.
Amazing movie. I think the actors were great and that the story was well written and filmed.


Could not say anything , Its the best movie ever made !

This masterpiece, directed by Frank Darabout, explores two men seeking redemption as they dream of freedom in Shawshank prison. Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted for the murder of his wife and her lover; he also befriends a convict named Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman) as he eventually gains the respect of the other inmates. Roger Deakins' cinematography has the ability to capture Andy's sense of determination and optimism in Shawshank prison. This unforgettable drama deeply explores the essence of hope as the audience learns that "some birds are not meant to be caged; their feathers are just too bright."
This is a good movie, but I'm surprised to see that it's got the #1 spot on IMDb's top movie list. The acting is excellent, and it has a great message; however, it's lacking a big "wow" moment for me. A lot of things that happened weren't necessarily "predictable", but I also wasn't shocked either. Still, it's a good movie that everyone should see.
After you finish this film you will set in front of your screen and your tongue will get stunned you will feel that the world doesn't exist and the film will control your brain as a toy this is a film combining thinking great emotions and the unexpected and traitors some gun shooting some comedy if I would do something I would go to the creators of the film and make them some status and write there names in the books of history . Morgan freeman played acted the film of his life All cast are masters they did deal with black magic or something if you didn't see that movie go buy it's DVD right now or I will come and kill you for not seeing that master piece
the main effect used in the movie is that the inside story is kept preserved for most of the time in the movie and revealed suddenly at the last movement . this was a great journey. the story narration of the movie is perfect.the direction of the movie from starting to the last is very much appreciated

this movie also teaches us that whatever be the way we have to struggle continuously in our life. and one day we will o=purely get success.

as a whole it was a very good movie and this type of movie should be appreciated. may be it does not have a very true story but this movie proves that only script does not matters
This movie is life the greatest picture ever. I loving it.
Andy and Red are 100% in love and I stand by that. No two people would go through the lengths they did at the end to be with each other unless they're in love.


I first saw this movie on TV and quickly it captured me somehow. The next day I searched the entire city for a shop to buy this movie and watch it on DVD. I must say, when I watched it first, I felt like... this has to be the best movies of all times. I think I cam compare it with Schindler's list but somehow this is better. Now let's talk about the movie. This is movie is really dramatic in a way, but it motivates you somehow, the main character gives you that power to live more better your days, when you see him struggling in that crazy prison. As everyone, the main character needs a friend, to get over the worst thing in prison, and he gets Red (M. Freeman) who remains his buddy until the end. The movie also show us how a prisoner gets so used to the prison life, that after he can get out... he doesn't know what to do with his life anymore. After you see Shawshank Prison, you are thinking about life in another perspective... and after that, you fell like seeing this movie again... and again! Great movie, and 10 stars from me, maybe the only one with this grade.


This movie was easily the best one based on a Stephen King and Frank Darabont screenplay. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman act very well together as best friends who find a way to deal with their difficult circumstances. Morgan Freeman's name in the movie is Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding. He is a person who can get you things, for a profit. Tim Robbins' name in the movie is Andrew Dufresne. He is someone accused of killing his wife. Andy asks Red to get him such items as a small rock hammer and posters of famous starlets. Red is someone disillusioned by the racist prison system, and serves as the main narrator for the film. This places the audience deeply inside the minds of the protagonists and even of the villains. I thought that Frank Darabont's directing was excellent. While close to three hours, it is time well spent as the movie is well written, well cast, and well directed. A solid 10/10 and recommended purchase.
Personally this film is listed in my top 20 favorite movies of all time and that is a pretty hard list to get in to. The Director did a marvelous job with this film, the cinematography is amazing, along with a talented cast it's a hard one to beat (well Green Mile does but that's another review)I have read the negative comments and all I can say to that is (as a film maker myself)well is that not the magic of cinema? Nothing created for the cinema as fiction is ever real to life or it wouldn't be called a movie but a documentary but that's my opinion.

I think the story is both captivating and well told on the screen and it doesn't get the credit it deserves.
Ill make this short. I got two versions of this DVD in my collection, in case one of them gets broken.

Excellent acting by Robbins and Freeman, plus all the other bi-characters. Thomas Newman's music in the background makes the moments so sore and intense that you forget everything else. Some critics might say its a sentimental cry-baby movie, but forget about it. Ask the biggest moron you can find on a monster-bike and ill bet he remembers this movie.

If you haven't seen the movie, go see it. If you have seen it, go see it again.
It's a moving story, with a profound message that allows us to be aware of the injustices that are experienced in the penitentiary system, but also goes further, encompassing the development of human nature, of the struggle when one has the impression of that there is no hope, of the redemption of life after losing everything. As other comments have already said, it is a film that should be recommended as an antidepressant by therapists, and that everyone should see more than once in their lives.
I don't want to say anything about the movie. I'm sure that you will enjoy it as much as I did. There are a lot of movies showing prison breaks but by far this one is the best not by the idea of the escape but by the message that this movie is sending. Once you've seen it you will feel different. I did

If you like Prison Break, if you liked Escape from Alcatraz you definitely want to see this movie.

Tim Robbins is doing an extraodrinary job and the screenplay is awesome. For sure 2 hours well spent in my life. And not only one ;)

If you can grab the 2004 release. Almost every error and goofs were fixed so you'll get the better version of it !





This is a strategic, well performed movie, it has rhythm and is goodball the way through from start to end. Best movie i've seen for a long time!
Wonderful, wonderful movie. It starts from a convict hoping for something and it beautifully shows the whole journey fulfilling the hope. Not for a moment I thought, I was watching a movie, it felt like living each moment. The plot summary says story of 2 prisoners, but I was moved by third one story. And the ending it was a sheer surprise, I was stunned to say the least. Must watch for anyone who hopes for something.
This is a decent film. I do think it is way too over rated over the years though. In fact it is probably the most over rated movie in cinema history. There are several prison films that are far better. This is worth a watch and of course you may feel I've not been very kind once you have watched it. The two main characters are played by powerful actors in Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, They are worth watching alone. The direction and overall portrayal of the film however in my opinion is rather predicable.
I'd be lying to you if I told you that when Andy brakes out of his cell and crawls to freedom, I wasn't just as happy as the masses of people that call this their all time favorite move. And to say that I wasn't riveted when he is locked i the office and turns up the music while being threatened by the guards would also be untrue. But at the same time, this movie is most certainly not the second best film ever because of one simple reason: It can't decide if it wants to be real with occasional hints of hope or imaginative and dreamy. It drags you along for two hours of hard depressing facts and victory only in the most modest portions, then, for whatever reason, has a Hollywood ending of him digging through the wall then picking up the bank account that there's no way in hell that he'd be able to get in real life. This is great entertainment and I give it a ton of credit for having the ability to maintain my attention the whole time. But at the same time, the ending proved a little disappointing because it betrayed everything that this movie was trying to be.
The best movie in all of history The best movie in all of history The best movie in all of history The best movie in all of history

This film has moved me in was I struggle to describe. From the style of filming to the script and actors, it is all phenomenal and culminates in what I consider to be the greatest piece of cinema I have ever seen. This is pure and absolute storytelling. It simultaneously shocking, heartwarming, brutal and meaningful. But most of all the story is hopeful in a way that I have never experienced.
The Villain in this movie played by Bob Gunton inst just the Villain because hes the warden and the protagonist is an inmate, but because of his despicable actions that make him one of the greatest villains in all of cinematic history. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give excellent performances as Andy Dufresne and Ellis Boyd Redding respectively. Time in this movie is portrayed expertly by Morgan freeman's character getting parole every 10 years and the tired expression on his face just shows. frank darabont's direction goes a hell of a long way with the direction of brooks character played marvelously by James Whitmore shows what time and captivity can do to a man it's very unsettling to think about. the scenes with Andy and the sisters and the one where Andy is in the hole just feel so real. this is one of the best movies ever made and also a personal favorite of mine.
Really a brain twister movie to watch. Morgen Freeman on his best along with Tim Robbins. Once you start watching you can not move on before ending it just because of its mysterious story which you will loved the most. I think one of best movie ever directed by Frank Darabont.And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are going through.
There's not many movies I can watch over and over again, but this is one of them. It just feels pitch perfect. Well written, perfectly casted ... the cinematography is flawless. By far, Darabont's crown jewel. Everything just works so well. And Morgan Freeman's (now ubiquitous) narration is the heart and soul of the film. A dark but uplifting tale about hope and friendship. A timeless, Hollywood masterpiece.

I sometimes wonder if films like this will ever be made again? Would it even be possible for a movie like this to be greenlit today and compete with Fast & Furious 23? Probably not. If you haven't seen this movie, waste no time, find it and watch it.
It's a cult movie and this movie has a cool name. This film tells the road to success despite difficulties. I think it's one of the movies to watch.

I'm gonna keep this review short and sweet, because you shouldn't be wasting your time reading reviews when you can be watching "The Shawshank Redemption" instead.

This is the best film of all time. Where do I even begin? The foreshadowing, the charm, Morgan Freeman, the emotion, the characters, Morgan Freeman. the music, the rewatchability, did I mention Morgan Freeman?

There's a reason why this film is ranked #1 of all time on IMDb. I don't want to waste any more time. Just watch it!
The Shawshank Redemption is just an epic masterpiece. It's a movie everybody should watch once in their life. Frank Darabont put together a legendary film, which at the time he probably did not think it would ever get this big. Morgan Freeman, Bob Gunton, Gill Bellows, Tim Robbins, and the rest of the amazing cast gave their performances of their life's to make this movie such an exceptional one. Looking back at the 1994 Oscars, in my opinion i think it should have won Best Picture over Forest Gump. Honestly, i don't think there is a single flaw in this movie. Its one of the most iconic films ever made. Thomas Newman as well, did great in composing the score for the movie.
It dont matter how many times i watch and i still feel like its the first time im watching :) just great! I think most of you knows what i mean by that. Great by means
Anyone who has ever read any Stephen King knows that a good 98% of the time the movie is never as good as the book. Usually the movie loses so much of the characters from the books. I actually didn't read the story the movie is based on (Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption)until years after seeing the movie a few hundred times. That's why, when I read it for the first time I was very surprised to find myself saying "wow, the movie actually followed the book!!" to the point that, in an odd coincidence, the movie was on AMC when I was in the last few pages of the story and I held off onreading the last part, Reds talk about Hope, until it came up in the movie. And, as I was reading, even though the book told us Red was in fact a white, red headed Irish man, I heard Mr. Freeman telling me the whole story as I read it.
At first I thought I would be bored by the Shawshank Redemption but when the film was over I was the complete opposite. The story was gripping, sad, and at some points even funny. The acting was perfect. If they had picked different actors I think they wouldn't have been able to pull it ...The Shawshank Redemption has three dimensional characters, great character development, acting, script, editing, twists, camera angles, directing, music and more. As always Morgan Freeman was awesome....Must watch movie.....Hello Friends,I have now started finding better movies through www.flickstree.com. It not only suggests great movies to watch the movie online....Highly recommended
Frank Darabont 's 'The Shawshank Redemption' is an excellent piece of Art, that takes the viewers for a philosophical ride. This Prison film, focuses on the journey of a banker (Tim Robbins) in Shawshank prison, through the eyes of another inmate 'RED', played by Morgan Freeman. Though the film, haven't succeed in box office terms, The shawshank redemption, will remain a Timeless Epic.

I have now started finding better movies through www.flickstree.com. It not only suggests great movies to watch, it also tells where you can watch the movie online. **Highly recommended**.

Thank You !!
Its greatness resides in that it makes you feel; that's what makes it a masterpiece of modern cinema. Without artifice, or lies, or unnecessary entanglement, Perpetual Chain is brutally honest, like life itself. It has scenes that are pieces of Cinema in capital letters, you know, the one that grabs you by the lapels and whispers in your ear: wake up. This film talks about hope and love of life, about how to survive hell with determination, about keeping dreams alive even if you haven't seen the sunlight for two months, about friendship. Open your eyes wide when you see it because it may teach you what really matters


This is how movies should be made, this is such a great movie and I will recommend to everyone.

I saw this film back in '95 in Romania. Funny thing - it's translated title there was "Angels' Prison"...I don't if it's the best ever made, for sure it's the one I liked the most. the film is about friendship - one thing who became pretty rare nowadays - and is simply magic, don't have any other words to add except that I've logged in on IMDb' site just to be able to vote and make sure it stays no. ONE. So it had 7 Oscar nominations, walked away with nothing. That tells me nothing folks, I only remember the emotions I experienced when I saw it. I'am not a touchy one but Shawshank did it for me, big time. And one final word, please don't forget Stephen King in all this, just because he had commercial success doesn't mean he's not great.
It is a classic movie of Morgan Freeman, based on a escape from a prison, the making was outstanding, last 15 minutes of the film just made my mind delighted, one must watch the movie till the end.

The after effects of this movie will affect your mood for sometime for sure. Its the most heart touching movie I have ever seen in my life. At first it didn't seem like the best movie in the world as everyone talking about but I don't know when but at some point you will forget about everything and start to melt in to this movie. This is unbelievably deep, no movie has ever came to that depth. Its unimaginable levels of sadness you could feel for yourself. Its scary too in a way especially when you realize this happens in the real world for lots of people.
The shawshank redemption isn't just a movie. It's THE movie. If aliens came to earth and wanted to watch a movie, I'd show them this. Everyone should see this once in their life. A must watch. No movie made me cry so naturally like this one, it's beautiful. Watch it now.
One of the greatest films ever made, simple! ......................................................................................
One of the finest films ever made. This jockeys for 1st or 2nd in my all time list, depending on when I'm asked. This movie is a thoughtful, poignant and brutally honest examination of the human experience in the face of extreme adversity.

The overall theme boils down to "Don't give up hope" and that the evidence of that hope is the focusing of one's will into a sheer, unstoppable weapon for change. Andy is a wonderfully rounded out and active protagonist who you root for even before you know him well.

This movie has been played repeatedly on cable, but do yourself a favor and watch the unedited version. Bring tissue in case dirt gets in your eye.
Movie is really good but I don't think, it is the no 1 top rated movie...
This film touches me. I believe it's the greatest film because I has an effect on people's lives. We watch a lot of films everyday but hardly we refer back to them.

This is a film I apply in everyday life. Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things. The part I liked most is when Red said "some birds are not meant to be caged; they'll fly away and when they do, that part of you that knows it was a sin to have locked them up does rejoice..."

Indeed we should build our lives such that circumstances cannot cage us. All the while Andy was in the prison, his mind was outside.

Indeed, salvation lies within....
Great movie, great cinematography, great acting. I really enjoyed this.
Honestly has to be considered one of the greatest films ever created.

Stephen kings short story makes a big and small screen story of hope vs despair, of never giving up vs acceptance of ones fate.

The voice over of Freeman is perfectly narrated, whilst the soundtrack is just phenomenal. Sularia being. a particular highlight but the original tracks are wonderfull.
So many clichÃ©s spawned from this film as did Freeman's own "Morgan Freeman being Morgan Freeman" style of acting. That being said it's hard to watch it and not feel joy at the little victories the cons manage to win. Tops the list of best films again and again but you can see why if you're looking for a man's chick flick.

Pretty good actually. I liked the Movie as a whole but cannot give it higher due to the fact I've seen better Movies in the past.
The shawshank redemption is a wonderful film adaptation that is far superior than its original story. With great writing and a fantastic story as well as some of the best acting you will see in film.
The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made, but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.
im Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a city banker, wrongfully convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. He is sent to Shawshank Prison in 1947 and receives a double life sentence for the crime. Andy forms an unlikely friendship with "Red" (Morgan Freeman), the man who knows how to get things. Andy faces many trials in prison, but forms an alliance with the wardens because he is able to use his banking experience to help the corrupt officials amass personal fortunes. The story unfolds....

I was so impressed with how every single subplot was given a great deal of respect and attention from the director. The acting was world-class. I have never seen Tim Robbins act as well since, Morgan Freeman maybe (e.g. Seven). The twists were unexpected, an although this film had a familiar feel, it wasn't even slightly pretentious or clichÃ©d, it was original. The cinematography was grand and expressive. It gave a real impression of the sheer magnitude of this daunting prison.
Hope can be dangerous. I hope I can make it across the border. I hope to see my friend, and shake his hand. I hope the Pacific is as blue as it has been in my dreams.I hope. If I tell someone my favorite movie is it, everyone understands I am movie buff.
Its a must watch move in a life time... my friend recommend me this movie and when i saw... i m speechless. Must watch..! every one have to see this once in your life time
This is a Film I try to watch atleast a few times a year, it is impact full and gripping, the story line was well written. Definately a Recommended film
This film is very overrated by seemingly sensible people. It is a remarkably emotional film on a par with various pulpy Catherine Cookson films. Talking of pulp, Pulp Fiction is awesome in comparison, as is The Shining. That Shawshank is voted Number One on many movie charts, is absolute madness. I have seen it on various occasions and via various media. And I cannot work out why people have it in such high regard. Over. Rated. Fact. Also, the film has no air of being cool or stylish in any way - it has no wow-factor of great cinematography in the way a film like Let The Right One In has for example. It has no black humour. It is tame by comparison to other films. It has no astounding scenes which Pulp Fiction has by the truckload. It has no atmosphere which a film like The Shining has by the snow-plough load. Shawshank at Number One - Absolute Madness.
It's a movie not to be missed and indeed everyone in the movie plays thier roll very well
Nice Really nice one contribution Nice Really nice one contribution

Ahja isjruxhsjrkfkxkwjebkdksixiyisrixisrjr dissidierend widdkd
I love this movie so much. I think I've seen it around 5 times now and I love it every time. There is nothing bad I can really say about it. Even though they don't follow the book to its core I still think it really deserves its number one place here.
WOW what a great way to spend two hours on your backside - This is one of the greatest films ever made. I love all of it, Tim Robbins acting fighting the skinheads, teaching the inmates, helping with the guards finances, and digging the tunnel a wonderfully written part and a self crafted bit genius from Morgan Freeman made this film sparkle! GREAT FILM! please watch it... I think the prison warden looks like Graham 'turinp' Taylor the ex England Soccer Manager! funny - I love the shoes joke at the end very good. It did remind me a little of other films when Morgan Freeman leaves prison. But Tim on his boat at the very end is a smile raiser!

When I was 1st told about this film was about 20 odd year's ago I was so gripped by it that I just went out and bought it stopped buying dvd's age's ago but I have this film in my collection

Probably the best movie ever made. Period. Pure perfection.
I Really Really Loved it And it contain 1 of the best metaphors ive ever watched
I don't get why this movie is so beloved... Seemed very cliche and predictable. Maybe it's a 90's thing?
Look I don't write reviews but I'm just speechless right now... One of the greatest movie I have ever seen and if you haven't watched it, you should and you won't regret it, The reviews don't lie and the high rating is well deserved.
A very compelling movie. The acting is impeccable and the suspense is real. The plot was not predictable something that is unusual for a movie. All I have to say is that this is probably one of the best movies I've seen in a long time!
I've seen this movie over 10 times now and it only gets better and deeper! Thank you Frank.D and Mr. King for creating this wonderful story and movie! Best of all time
It's the best plot ever this film is one of the best films that made my day i watched it over 20 times and i learned many things from it every time i watched it
I have seen this move more then 20 times and every time i see this movie it's seems new to me. The Main story told in this move is more than perfect to motivate any one for keep focusing on Goal what you want to achieve .
Everything is perfect. Acting, screenplay, directing. Stephen King is a hell of a writer despite awfull movies like The Langoliers, The Tommyknockers and IT (1990), the books from which those movies were adapted are awesome, so either you do a great movie out of a Stephen King story or a really terrible one.
Based on Stephen kings 'Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption' this movie is a modern masterpiece that I could not recommend more, upon watching it just once it has instantly become one of my favourites. Touching and heartbreaking at times, yet at others disturbing. A grim look on the lives of the prisoners. The characters leave you attached to their individual personalities each creating a sense of sympathy from the viewer. Characters such as Brooks, an old man who looks after a wounded bird within the prison, truly shine and their individual stories leave you feeling as they feel. Brilliantly directed with touching themes such as hope, friendship and humanity within prisons makes this film truly worth the hype. Could not reccomend more. Closest thing to cinematic perfection and story telling that I have come across.
I remember this. I just forgot about the whole thing. I watched last night and forgot how good this movie was. Well done!

Very few movies can move moods so subtly and then surprise you at the end, but this one did that for me.

A skillfully evocative piece that shows the rewards of morality and undying faith.
Best movie ever. Awesome actors playing. This more than two hours been gone like 10 minets.
Give me so much hope, meaningful scenes, the best drama ever Give me so much hope, meaningful scenes, the best drama ever Give me so much hope, meaningful scenes, the best drama ever.
Its interesting to read the comments on this movie. I don't think any film has polarized users as much as this one has. Almost 53% gave it a 10! 10 is perfection in cinematography, acting, screenplay etc. This movie is not perfect. Granted it tells a heartwarming story and is entertaining enough, so I charitably gave it an 8 and I think that's fair. Is this movie the second best of all time? NOT! I think 53% of the voters have been blinded by the redemption scene and the twist at the end, sure it was neat but check your warm n' fuzzies folks. Other movies that are overrated at IMDb because of a neat twist at the end are The Usual Suspects and The Sixth Sense. A twist does not make it Perfect.

The amount of time that has past since I last saw a movie as interesting and faithful to the making of film has been more than I can remember. After that extensive wait, my thirst for a film as engrossing as The Shawshank Redemption grew to the point where it did not even register anymore. This film though, has broken the wall of disinterest I've held for cheesy, hi-tech, flashy cute flicks that have littered the cinemas as of late. The character development, cinematography, and script for The Shawshank Redemption shine through the bleak cloud that I see surrounding Hollywood these days, as it concerns itself with special effects and big name actors bent on budgets and wages. A rental that I so wish I had seen in the theaters five years ago, the camera work and display from Freeman and Robbins is a relief to view, and eye-opening connection to movies that is so rare. It's one film that tugs at all your emotional strings, and even plucks at the brain a little.

I love this movie very much.

You can visit my blog to download full version games. Highly COmpressed Games Fully PC Games Ultra Compressed Games PC Games Full Version PC Games 1 click download link 24/7 network Request any game at: Blackguards 2 Free Download PC Game Full Game Blackguards 2 Free Download PC Game Full Game Description: Blackguards 2 a continuance of turn-based approach with RPG elements. In this game you will come across extremely topical aggressive crimes and a lot of blood-spattered battles in the hexagonal

http://www.18-games.com
I can see it again and again, this is without a doubt the best movie ever made! I love everything about it, and if you have'nt seen it yet, I must urge you to run to the nearest video store and get yourself a copy. I'll bet you'll love it!
i love love love love love this movie! I dont know how many movies i can say that i've walked away from feeling completely overcome with happiness and satisfaction, but i know this is one of them. this is one of my favorite movies! i can't remember the last movie that i cried with happiness at the end. "Different Seasons" is a great collection of King stories, and two of his best movie adaptations have been taken from it: shawshank and "Stand by Me." i thought it was nice to see a movie that relied on something other than sex and violence, and makes the viewer feel so wonderful afterwards! a must must must see!
I must say I'm very surprised at all of these positive comments. I'm shocked at the #2 rating. Simply because very few people I know have seen the film. When I run into the ones who have, we end up discussing it for a long time. That's the power this movie has.

I have no reason to connect to the characters. I'm simply a young woman and nothing more. I've never been unjustly accused of a crime and/or thrown into prison. Yet somehow this alien situation becomes much larger and universal. You connect no matter what your circumstance is.

The only disappointment I had was that I didn't get the chance to see the film in the theaters. I avoided renting it because I thought it would be boring. Please do not let that sway you. This is one of the most exciting movies I have ever seen. It's my favorite movie.
i have to say that i had to be coerced into seeing it. my cousin told me the title and that totally turned me off. but after finally seeing this masterpiece i could have shot myself for thinking the way that i did. this film quickly became my alltime favorite. when people had asked me before what my favorite movie is, i had a few. but now it is hands down my favorite. i could watch it 10 times a day and still want to watch it one more time. even though i'm only 16 i know a good movie when i see one. i am so disappointed in the academy for not giving it any awards. but then again they also didn't give jim carrey a nomination for the truman show. so anyone out there wants to see it, do.
Without a doubt, The Shawshank Redemption is one of the absolute best movies that I have ever seen. Seeing a movie with characters that seem so true to life that I could actually care for them was a rare and very welcome experience for me. The film was made in such a way that you didn't really know how it was going to end, but what an ending indeed. I thought it was one of the most rewarding endings to a movie in recent history. I don't know how this movie was passed up for an Academy Award for best picture, or at least a nomination, amazes me. Well deserving of its rank of #4 in the top 250 movies of all time.
This movie is truly my favorite film of all time. It certainly should have won the Oscar for Best Picture of 1994. Unfortunately, Forrest Gump and Tom Hanks were out and about that year as well, so Shawshank took a back seat. It never should have. This is the most well-acted, scripted, directed and filmed movie I have seen to date. From the narration to the awe-inspiring ending, this movie is, quite simply, perfect. I've not been able to say that about another movie before or since.
In my opinion, this is the best adaptation of a Stephen King work ever done. It is totally involving from start to finish, and has one of the most satisfying conclusions I've ever seen. It is one of those intriguing films which cause you to work backward in your mind from the climax to figure out how it all happened.

There are few movies that are never forgotten. The Shawshank Redemption is one of those films, that always stays in the back of the mind. Andy Dufresne is a character that the viewer finds themselves caring about from his first appearance. Everyone knows a Red or a Brooks. The triumph of the human spirit comes out. When the movie ends, it leaves you with a sense that you just endured a great journey. There are few films that actually allow the viewer to feel as if the actions happening to the main actor, are happening to them.
Classic storytelling stellar cast a timeless piece of cinema that can be enjoyed and relate to a number of demographics the takeaway message of reaching for the humanity within each of us from our most basic needs while regarding the will to live is strong
Incredible. That's all there is to say about it. Tim Robbin's turns in a fantastic performance as does Morgan Freeman and all of the supporting cast. The story is captivating and the characters are well drawn. All screen writers (aspiring as well as established) need to review this movie periodically to remember why they love movies. Movie scores do not get any better than in Shawshank.
This film is by far my favorite movie to date. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman have great chemistry. Once you watch this movie a second time you see how all the small details that you may have seen as insignificant fall into place. My personal favorite is how the rock hammer was in the starting pages of the book of Exodus from the bible.
This is my boyfriend best movie ever and he showed it to me recently and I loved it ! It's beautiful and surprising !
I first saw this movie on TBS one night, and wasn't all that interested in it at first. But as the movie progressed, I found myself totally glued to the TV. This movie is quite possibly the best movie I've ever seen. Every single thing in this movie is perfect, the acting, chemistry, plot. Its all so wonderfully done. The ending of this movie was really great. Its really hard to describe how good this movie is. Just go get it, you'll never regret seeing it.
This is a 'must see' movie. Very strong emotionally and with great actors that perform at their best.

But this movie makes you think, think about life and specially about hope, and the final is well worth seeing it.

After all, isn't Shawshank our prison to us all?
Nice film, all of this comment its just needed to activate my account i guess.
This is one of the best movies of all time; an absolute masterpiece! It brings me to tears every time I see it and I never tire of it. It is a shame that this movie came out in 1994 because Pulp Fiction and Forrest Gump stole it's thunder. Had it been released in '95, '96, '98, or '99. It surely would have been a front runner the best picture oscar. I exclude '97 because nothing could have beat the almighty Titanic. Everyone should see this movie because it is the best example of good people triumphing over evil and that hope still exists. The ending will put you in a good mood, I guarantee it!
Although this movie is almost 16years old, it still can holp up with new movies coming up nowadays. Fantastic movie!
This movie is simply amazing. The acting is superb, especially from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, the direction is one of kind and the ending sequence is so touching that you will cry.

This film should have get more attention. Can't understand why it didn't...
I'm not going to say anything new that anyone has already done. But I can say what I do thing about the movie. Simply put it is a way to make you aware how special as a human beings we are in terms of belonging to something.

I am not such a fan of Morgan Freeman but I can freely admit that this movie made me see him really different in a really good way.

If you really want to see something different that it will make you learn a few lessons about human emotions, and the difference between being right or wrong (Not going much further in of course), this is indeed your movie.
Any movie that you can see over 30 times and doesn't get old, doesn't become prone to having mistakes found in it and still keeps you anticipating the ending even though you know what's going to happen is a great movie. Flawless is the only word I can use to describe this movie. From the acting of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins to the screen play by Stephen King, this film doesn't have one flaw in it. This film has one of the all time best endings if not the best ending I've ever seen. A definite master piece of a movie.
Brilliance. Total Brilliance.

From the perfectly casted roles, to the haunting music; the all-encompassing narrative provided by Morgan Freeman, to the magnificent storyline and plot, this movie blends all these elements of good film-making. So much so, that even something as commonly overlooked as having just enough comedy to provide relief from total somberness, but not enough to distract from the misery of prison life brought by the equally criminal actions of those in authority at the prison; this, too, was executed with perfection.

This movie is the blueprint for what I would consider to be the perfect movie. I challenge anyone to come up with something they would "do better" than what those who made this movie did.
The best film I've ever seen. As soon as I got a DVD player I made sure this was among my first purchases. I watched it 3 times that week and a several more times in the following few months. If you haven't seen this film yet, rent it today. Better yet, buy it, because you'll definitely want to see it more than once!


Owo. i jus love this movie. when he do the stunt , i was jus shocked!!!
This move is by far one of the best movies of all time. It deserves to be in the top 5. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman do an excellent job, I couldn't pick anyone else to play the role better. Their performance was outstanding. I recommend this movie to everyone, if you haven't seen it, you should.
Although I couldn't finish reading all prior 8,999 reviews before. I just let you guys know that I'm here to tell you for the sake of number 9,000 reviews that this movie worth every damn second.
After being slightly dissappointed by "The Green Mile", I decided to check out Frank Darabont's first adaptation of a Steven King prison story once again. "The Shawshank Redemption" remained as much of an enjoyably original modern classic after this second viewing. In this second viewing, I appreciated even more the sparklingly sharp dialogue between Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. Like in "Green Mile", Darabont set the scene of a depression-era prison extremely well. The director was also well-served to use King's vivid character descriptions to make the supporting characters as memorable as the leads. The result was an instant, uplifting classic about hope brought to the most hopeless locations.
one that will stay at the top of my list for a very very long time. i've watched this movie ever and over again and i still am amazed by how good the movie is. it's a very enlightening movie that will make you think about many things about your life and what have you done in live. i guess every one of you have watched this excellent peace of art, so i guess you have the same feeling as i have right now. too bad this awesome movie do not enter my country in indonesia, so not many people can appreciate the sheer quality of shawshank redemption.

a very touching movie indeed.
The Shawshank Redemption was a beautifully directed movie. The actors portrayed their characters to the greatest extent and i thoroughly enjoyed this movie. The best scene in the movie was the huge tree...each of its branches catching the suns rays as Morgan Freeman finds what Tim Robbins left for him...anyone who doesn't remember that better watch the movie again.
The movie has a beautiful evolution starting from how it all began to how it all ended. It shows the struggle of prisoners and how people can grow and change if there is a will. I would recommend this excellent movie to everyone.
I think this movie is my favorite of all time. The reasons are (1)I watch it every time it is played on television in rerun even though I have it on tape (2)It gets an emotional reaction from me every time I watch it and (3)I never notice how long the movie is because I am so entertained by it.
I watched Shawshank right after it's release on VHS and was completely overtaken by it. I went out and bought the video as soon as I could and to this day it remains the gem of my collection. It is simply the greatest movie ever made. No matter how many times I watch this film, it seems to get even better than the last. There isn't a single flaw anywhere in this movie! The greatest aspect though is Morgan Freemans narration. Nobody should go without seeing this movie at least once.
The Shawshank Redemption is the best film i have ever seen. The story by itself is just awesome, and the actors in this film are really superb It is not right that the godfather stands before this film.

Shawshank Redemption should be at first place!!!!
One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than a movie.
The Greatest Movie ever made by human beings. Don't know about Aliens though
A great movie that is now a classic. definitely in my top 10. some of the best characters and best character development i've ever seen in a movie.
Everyone should watch this movie at least once. Amazing cast direction..I love Mr. Freeman.
I have seen this movie like a thousand times, and I enjoyed it every single time, because every single time watching it, I remarked new anecdotes that I hadn't in the previous watching. Morgan Freeman is definitely on his best performance ever,(I just love the part where he sits in front of the rehabilitation committee for the last time and tells them how it feels to be in prison for more than 20 years), and Frank Darabont can surely be proud of directing an intelligent movie, but Tim Robbins deserves to be mentioned due to an excellent performance as well as all the other actors. I appreciate the way in which this movie combines two crucial topics of every life: Hope and disillusion ! And I guess I also liked it because there aren't any women in the movie! No offence!
Shawshank Redemption is one of my personal all time favorite films because of the dialogue, the detail, the acting, the emotion given off by the actors in each scene and all around the whole movie itself makes it a legend. The cast is perfect especially each role each actor and actress portrays is spot on and makes you shiver how well they are in their roles. I believe that all parents should have their kids watch this movie at least once in their young lives so they can see a true masterpiece at it's finest. Every part of the movie is breath-taking, amazing and just beautiful in its own way. There is not one thing I can complain about with this movie and you shouldn't either because it is just pure perfection in movie history. Best Movie I have watched in my whole life, nothing can beat it in my opinion.
Any time this is on cable and there's nothing on but B.S. won't mention AMC time theif programs, I watch this regardless how many times I have seen it already!!!

So what about this great surprise? This film is a true masterpiece of cinematic history. This great feat will teach you life and what's better than this !!! By seeing this unique film, you will understand the meaning of life, and this film will take you to a world beyond the boundaries of movies and cinema...i love this movie and i am sure you will love this movie too..thank make my dream

The Shawshank Redemption is most obviously one of the greatest movies in film history. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman make an unforgettable duo that captures the audience in magnificent acting and a well-written plot. There was not one moment where the movie did not hold my attention or seem boring. Therefore, it indubitably earns a 10/10 and praise. A tale of two jail inmates/friends, The Shawshank Redemption shines a light on the injustice of this world and the pleasures of freedom after years of confinement. It proves that through all the troubling experiences, one man never loses sight of his dream. This not only gives Tim Robbins's character a chance of redemption but also chance for Morgan Freeman's character to be inspired by an endless struggle that pays in the end. Everyone of all ages should at one point in their lives watch this movie to witness not only great entertainment but also an inspiring story.

This is one of the best movies of all times as it has got everything in it for a person to enjoy a good movie and learn from it. I advise everyone to watch it at least once.

I watched this film for the fist time recently and I am in awe, it certainly lives up to praise it get's. It's rare for me to enjoy such a highly rated film as i usually set my standards to high, but you can't set your standards high enough for this masterpiece.
I don't think so. It is a good movie, but not something you will remember for long. jifotoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooweeu v9 83tjerdoijreiouioueoiysv87ry87ivtbiunyuriiyreuyutryuiytyurytuytuyutiyytuytutyutyruyutyutyutyutytry78i4uw5b897u4wnb8uebouy4ndyxnyubi4yeduyr87eirybb97tryeuiyb6try78d5eryuryeyrey78y7t78r3y63t8qt8yeftfty78try78et8d78tyty7ytyt7yttyuteyutyuetutey
This film is one of the best films I've ever seen. It gives you a realistic story line of how the prison system works. My friends first Persuaded me to watch it, while I thought it was going to be very boring, and now it is one of my favourite films. It makes you go on an emotional rollercoaster and the ending is so unpredictable. My friends and I still quote this movie and having seen it a hundred times we still all love it. It is a great film to watch with family and friends and is an all time classic to watch.
No words describe this movie, the best there is, the best there ever will be.

A must see for a diehard fan of a great script. While watching this movie, remember to to bring all the snaks and drinks. Not a single minut can missed. Enjoy
So nice perfect how are u i hope u have a nice day
I love this movie,a lot it is by far the most emotionzl movie i've seen in my life.

Best single movie ever to exist everyone should watch it before they die
I am V upset with the little amount of cats, hats and cat in hats in this film. Defiantly give this a miss and watch the best movie of all time THE CAT IN THE HAT 2003 ft our good old buddy Mike

Anytime this movie is showing on any channel I must watch it- in fact, I've lost count of how many times I've watched this. What an amazing movie, that puts life into perspective. A true masterpiece that sits amongst the classics in my books.
One of the greatest movies ever made. Shawshank tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker convicted of his wives (and her lovers) murder. When Andy comes across inmate Red, the two form a near two decade long relationship. With Tim Robbins and Morgen Freeman in lead roles, Shawshank is an absolute masterpiece that every film lover should watch. Frank Darabont's directing is great and even more so than any of his previous work. There's really not much wrong with Shawshank. The adaptation from Stephen Kings epic novel is compelling, exciting, disheartening and inspiring. With great supporting characters, an incredible plot and stunning directing, Shawshank has become one of the greatest movies ever made. Its an absolute travesty that this didn't win the Oscar for Best Picture in 1994 although there was some stiff competition.
This is that kind of film that every one will love. I have watched this film 5 times and will watch it again. This film gives you hope when you are lost. Nothing short of a masterpiece.
Great movie. Great acting and storyline. Excellent plot twist
There's no words can describe how great is that movie.
THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION at Metropolitan Ensemble Theatre At The Warwick Theatre. Nice Little review for our premier in Kansas of our stage adaptation. standing ovation every night so far I hear

"The Shawshenk Redemption" is not a regular experience. It's a compeling story about two prisoners who's holding to the only thing shawshenk is trying to break for them - hope. Darabont delievered one of the cinema's finest production works, and personally for me the greatest movie ever made. He knows at which points to touch, at our most universal and deep points. And I think its length is just a plus because in its first views you feel like all its heaviness falling apart towards the end has been recharged for almost two hours. I've seen a lot of movies in my life, no one touched me at all points like him.
An amazing movie that left me crying as I was leaving the movie theater.
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.
One of the few movies that always makes me cry. I love the role of Freeman and the ending (without making a spoiler) is nice, for a change

Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and defintely one of the top 'prison' movies of all-time. Pretty much everything about this movie works and works extremely well! Oh and it's better than the novel.
There is absolutely nothing redeeming about this maudlin Hollywood package. The storyline is predictable; the characters and performances are one-dimensional; the dialogue is absolutely embarrassing ("Prison is not a fairy tale." Ya think?!) If it would have been about women instead of men, it would have been dismissed as the schmaltzfest that it is. It isn't even courageous enough to admit that it is a gay love story. Tim Robbins should be ashamed to have taken part, for his performance was the most wooden I'd seen since Daryl Hannah in (insert any 80s movie she appeared in here). Morgan Freeman was even more dreadful and has been giving the same dreadful performance ever since. I don't expect much depth from Stephen King-inspired movies, but "Children of the Corn" was insightful in comparison to this dribble.
One of the all time great films. Morgan Freeman's acting is superb, Stephen King's work added to the excellent screenwriting and directing has offered a film that would rank top 25 on any list.
Idu Idu... Idu cinema andre. Sakath guru. Jail inda escape andre hinge...
It is an awesome movie. i watched it and awesome work done by the actors and other people with great efforts.

Gripping, very good movie. Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sentenced to two consecutive life terms in prison for the murders of his wife and her lover and is sentenced to a tough prison. However, only Andy knows he didn't commit the crimes.
One of the best movies of all time. Don't deprive yourself of the pleasure of watching such a stellar movie. Go now and watch this movie if you have never seen it. Perfect casting, amazing story, emotional performances. Just perfect.Sad thing is that films as of this levels are no longer in making ... films with meaning. Contains a strong plot, powerful performances, and the ultimate theme of good and evil, is a masterpiece.
It was a classic movie. The actors do their best to make it best of all time
There are not many movies that are so beautifully edited and well acted. It is inevitable for Imdb to be in the first place. Congratulations to all players.

I feel that I probably wouldn't do this film justice if I were to leave a review. So, I will just leave it at this, do yourself a favor and make sure that you watch this movie at least twice - three times would obviously be better!
After watching it a few time, this film has become my favourite! Each time I watch it I get more and more into the characters and I love it even more. On the contrary of what you might think at first the plot is not about escaping from the prison. If it was only that it wouldn't be anything special as there have been a lot of films on that subject. What the film is about is the development of the characters themselves.

I don't want to spoil it at all so I won't say any more about the story. All I can say is that I don't see to this day anything wrong with the film. Everything is brilliant from the acting to the music. I don't see how it is possible for somebody not to like it. I'd recommend it to anybody. It's one of those films which make you realize that you don't need CGI and big explosions to make a great film. But on the contrary big budget films are often the worst...
This film is up there with the classics! Is a deeply moving story, which portrays friendship, trust, hope and corruption. The ending is superb, and brings a smile to my face every single time i watch it. It shows a very realistic view of prisons in the 1930's where the officers were almost, or even more corrupt and evil than the inmates.

This is film which will never become outdated or even considered to be 'coming of age'. With superb acting from Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, it has to be the best film I have seen in a long long time.
Must watch movie. If you are searching for good movie must go on .....
Must watch. If you are searching for a good movie go for it ......

"Shawshank Redemption" breaks through the limitations of men's films, and the whole film is almost full of incredible warm tone, and the greatest theme of the film is "Hope"

A banker who is sentenced to two life sentences at Shawshank State Prison for apparently murdering his wife and her lover. Andy finds it tough going but finds solace in the friendship he forms with fellow inmate Ellis "Red" Redding (Freeman). While things start to pick up when the warden finds Andy a prison job more befitting his talents as a banker. However, the arrival of another inmate is going to vastly change things for all
Great story, great movie, great acting. Probably the most amazing movie I've ever watched.
Simply the best movie I've ever seen in my life. The performances are excellent and clean, engaging story. It's one of those movies that leaves you thinking about life for months. Awesome! It deserves the first place.
What is there to say about this movie that hasn't been said before in the era of endless PC drivle classics like this will remind you what a great movie and more importantly a well crafted and well told story should be.
We have watched it more than once and still enjoying
This is my favorite movie of the 90's. Fantastic script & dialogues, excellent actors, direction, photography. The best prison movie ever. One of the few movies you can see thousand times and never get bored. I recommend it to anyone that haven't seen it so far!

Antonis
This movie is Awesome. The shawshank redemption. This movie is thirella er.
People have strong beliefs, as long as you want to do and adhere to, you will have a successful day. After watching this movie, I felt that I was full of longing for a better life.
This movie is not your ordinary today movie flick. It has a great and deep message.. 7 Oscar's Awarded movie. You guys should watch this movie... When you will be free.. Brilliant movie...

Honestly, it's a perfect movie and this is my 7th time to watch it. it's really great to watch such a movie, thanks!
A most excellent film...watched many times. Never fails to be to enthralling
This film is very good and pleases me. it would be great to add some of the best actors and actresses in the country.
This movie is not your ordinary Hollywood flick. It has a great and deep message. This movie has a foundation and just kept on being built on from their and that foundation is hope.
Though Freeman is our times Micheal Caine, his performance in this flick is quite sufficient or rather staggering. In Oscar terms, "I would like to thank...", haden't been disapointing to me. To reavel the plot or resolution is to say how "The Mouse Trap" ends. All I can say is see the movie. It might be a "guy movie" but it is the best drama ever....
Watch it and was stoned to see that it was so good. It might need a sequel
One of the best movies of all time!

I watch it every time I see it on TV.
One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those are the films people talk about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's also a story for freedom. Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and Robbins are majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other. Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first moment they make contact with one another. There is also a wonderful performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.

He shines when it is his time to go back into the world, only to find that the world grew up so fast he never even got a chance to blink. Stephen King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and excitement. It is an extraordinary motion that people "will" be talking about in 50 or 100 years.
Storyline and actors are soo good! All i can say is the whole movie was unexpected!
Everyone lives in a kind of Shawshank prison, with all kinds of squeezing, physical and spiritual interlocking, breaking this and that.But with hope, there is peace of mind and belonging, because life is either busy living or busy dying.
Shawshank redemption is the best movie of all time
This movie is worth every minute! Brilliant cast and fantastic story.

This is not about a decent prison story. I have seen a lot about movies that tells you about what about life in prison, how scary it is and how strong the presence of injustice in there. But they never told one about character building inside of it.

Genius. In terms of building the character of. Andy and Red. How happens out there when somebody had you jailed inside of your mind and outside. Red somehow my favs character development. While Andy serve you about a true friendship and witty character. So much effort and acting in here. Almost a perfect score.
I enjoyed it it was good I like a lot of parts some not so much but was good
From start to finish I was hooked. I never wanted to stop watching this movie. Love it 10/10 wish I watched it sooner.
I'm not gonna bother writing a long, in-depth review. You've read it all before. All I'll say is The Shawshank Redemption is the greatest film of all time! It's a masterpiece from start to finish! If you haven't watched it yet, you need to do so as soon as possible!

I'm totally impressed with the ideology and concept of this movie. I never forget each scenes of this movie.



A must watch for everybody... one of the the most amazing movies ever !!!

Sentimental crap! Boring, over-rated beyond belief! Don't watch it-it's crap!
I love this movie to motivate me . i will be appropriated and recommended all my friends .
I love this movie to learn and motivate me. i will be appreciated for this movie.
I usually don't watch movies multiple times but this I have watched numerous times. I adore it. Every single aspect for a movie is perfectly done, so easy to follow for avarage viewer and yet so enjoyable for movie lovers. There are such slight hints for what is going to happened next for that little complexity.

Best movie so far loved the performances Best acting Best storyline
This is one and only one movie i have been reviewed. Movies tells us about hope.
This picture is a rip-off from the Clint Eastwood movie called " Escape from Alcatraz" When you watch it carefully you'll notice the similarity between the two of them. And not only this movie is a rip-off , the Clint Eastwood's movie is also a stolen idea from the movie called " A Man Escaped " an old classic french movie.
This film will go down in history as one of the greats!!!
No.1 movie for me,life changing.I naver seen a movie like this it keeps you tidely in every seen
Deserves its title. A must watch and a masterpiece.
Mum brought this home from the video store when I was 15. It's the type of movie when you remember details of the night you first watched it. I remember thinking I hate prison movies.. this is really Going to suck. Never trust mums to pick movies. Five minutes in I was hooked. You remember the name of the town, don't you?

I want to watch this movie because it is interesting and probably has a lot of action in it.
First-time director/screenwriter Frank Darabont expands Stephen King's 1982 short story 'Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption', into one of the most definitive, moving and uplifting films to be made in recent years. 'The Shawshank Redeption' is not just an acute prison drama, it remains a detailed an emotional study of humanities endeavour against hardship and repression. A standout performance by Morgan Freeman and dazeling direction by Darabont, are abetted by elaborate panoramic cinematography, a touching score and a malicious imposing character - the oppressive 'Shawshank State Prison' itself.

A melodrama of wasted lives and male bonding, nominated for 7 academy awards dispite a lukewarm box office reception.
I never watch this kind of movie this is masterpiece this movie just not entertain you but this motivates you how tackle your problems your opponent and one of the important is patience
The best movie in history.This is a great film. It is well constructed, the acting is superb and the characters are so likeable and the best ending in any entertainment business
Heartbreaking my all time favourite. The movie is just amazing. Narration is clearly the best!
What more can be said about this movie? There is a reason that it is number one on IMDb...a Website that is a database of every movie ever made...and it is still number 1.

When this comes on, no matter what time of the day, I know that I will be sitting and watching til the end. Great actors--I love Robbins and Freeman in this and the supporting actors are just as good , great story--(taken from a great short story)Even after reading the book the story is still exciting to watch unfold on the screen, and just amazingly filmed from start to finish!

This is one of my number 1 movies as well!!!
Amazing movies and beautiful , but is not bad , I would like to watch

290/5000 Starting from Andy and Red, all actors played a wonderful role. And he made sure that this movie didn't come down first. I watched this movie too late. It was 2015. I had no opportunity to watch. And I watched it 3 times. Beer event and escape from the tunnel was very good. Hey Andy, why aren't you drinking a beer?

This movie in beyond thinking. One can think to get himself out of the prison but no one can think like this guy thought and been successful to get himself out of the prison. Very enthusiastic and thrilling movie. One must watch it. Great Movie!!
I cant describe how great this movie is cause its just beyond greatness , lets just talk about how simple was the conversations with the simple look on this movie that made me feel like i were living with each character and with all there points of view , their feelings and everything.

I got straight in the vibe with this movie and lost track of time since the beginning.

This movie changed my mind so much i realized that sometimes a simple story is more than enough to make the greatest movie of all time.

Great work from everyone worked on this movie and thank you all for this ultimate masterpiece.
Its gives so much knowlege to me !! Its filled with creative and uniqness ! A must watch.
I never saw a film like this in my life. The film was also have a strong message.
Love watching this movie over and over greatly recommended
I love this movie i have been waching it since i was a kid we used to have a vcr growing up amd my mom and my sister would watch this my mom loves it to it puts her to sleep and no movie does that
A thief, who steals corporate secrets through the use of dream-sharing technology, is given the inverse task of planting an idea into the mind of a CEO.
It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250 list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway you. so amazing and incredible
If you are reading this chances are high that u have already watched the movie and this movie is way above a film which needs a review. Nonetheless this was obviously one of the best movies I have ever watched and as always Morgan Freeman's acting was just fabulous. I loved the fact that the ending was indeed quite clear be it good or bad and there was kinda an epilogue featuring the lead actors which satiated my thirst about all the story built up till the end. A masterpiece indeed.
It's nice from cinematography and production but i think the script need something to be a good ending.
Everybody needs to watch this before they die- it's an incredibly important film to cinema and visual storytelling. Please please please watch this if you have not already!!


Any other year, this would've won Best Picture. Probably Best Director, Best Actor, Best Supporting Actor, and Best Screenplay too. This film had the misfortune of going against juggernaut Forrest Gump, and there was no way that it could beat the hype surrounding the good (though not great) Gump. Still, seven years later, it looks like this is the film from 1994 that people will remember long after Forrest has faded away.
If you didn't like The Shawshank Redemption, then you don't understand the concept of the film. Shawshank is the epitome of good film-making -- a fresh, interesting, verisimilar, detailed story coupled with acting that makes Tim Robbins stand out in my mind as Andy Dufresne himself. The imagery is beautiful, the story has few, if any, holes, and Morgan Freeman plays the character of Red, the film's narrator, exceedingly well. To those who find it unnatural that a murderer has matured into a wise, thoughtful man during a long tenure in prison, I suggest that there is no more logical place for such a transformation. Red has had 20 years (upon Andy's arrival) to think about the crimes of his youth, and has grown as a result. In short, Shawshank is a movie for people who like good stories. It will make you laugh, it might make you cry, and in the end, you'll simply feel good about life itself.
I do not know how many times I thought this film was finished and it was not - although it took a while to get into it the ending was so exceptional I`ve watched it time and time again. There were so many twists I was not expecting - the author should be applauded
A brilliant story ...telling about the life of prisoners....
This was such an amazing movie with an amazing plot.
This movie remains you speechless. I am blessed that i watched this movie. Its my one of the favourite movies. In short this is hidden "hidden gem of Hollywood". If you are a true movie fan then sahwshank redemption is the best movie.
My boyfriend and I recite words from this movie all the time. We Never get tired of watching it ..some of the most memorable scenes ever reside in this movie.
I watch A LOT of movies and there's very few which I would have rated 10/10. I didn't get bored and I actually hadn't watched anything like it. Great overall!!
This is one of the finest movies I have ever seen in my lifetime. Motivation , patience, focus . Full of hope.

Greatest film making.

Is a movie about time, patience and loyalty -- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off despair.

This is the best movie classic from 90s only one word to say masterpiece.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of those films of which people used to say "they don't make 'em like that anymore". Well, Frank Darabont had the courage to do it and the world owes him a debt of gratitude. With the advent of the 90s there was the feeling that Hollywood, and Hollywood audiences, could never again accept such a thoughtful, emotional and "feelgood" movie as Shawshank. It shouldn't have been made in this era but thank God it was. Stick it in black and white and it could quite easily have come right out of the 50s along with It's A Wondeful Life. Most 90s films to which the critics automatically responded with the word "classic", Pulp Fiction, American Beauty, Fight Club, may or may not endure "the test of time" but there's no such doubts about The Shawshank Redemption. It is a true classic.
My second loved movie about life friends and how to be stronger
I really like it and i learn a lot from this great movie ðŸŽ¥
This is the best film i have ever seen. Classic for ages)

Do I need to tell anything else? No, but I will, in Portuguese. The Shawshank Redemption was released over 20 years and is still the best of all. For many years simply ranks first in the Top250 IMDb. The performances of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are sensational. The plot, based on a short story by Stephen King, is exquisite. The director, Frank Darabont, also directed "The Green Mile", which, incidentally, is also based on a short story by Stephen King. The most wronged film in Oscar history. Gave chance to compete with another fantastic movie, Forrest Gump, which was more commercial, mainly because of the participation of Tom Hanks, who was high at the time, since it came from films such as Philadelphia and Sleepless in Seattle.
Just finished watching it and I can't believe I spent eighteen years of my life without watching this masterpiece.
This movie should be seen by all the movie lovers. It express a lot of feelings. Mad, angry, love, friendship and a lot more. I could give 10 stars because simply it is the best movie ever. No fancy CGI just the pure genius of acting and a very good story line. The cinematography also outstanding. This movie is fit to be watched by all level of age. There are a lot of things that can be learned in the movie. Even it is screened on 1994, the quality of the movie is so amazing making its hard for the director to produce a better one. I hope there will be a lot more film that has the quality or a better one compared to The Shawshank Redemption.
By far, one of the best movie adaptations of a Stephen King novel to date. Perhaps a bit maudlin and sappy at times, it is an age old story of friendship, hope and redemption. A formula that head been done time and time again. What differentiates this film is that it doesn't get weighed down in that stereotypical quagmire. A brilliantly adapted screenplay, that conveys what daily life in prison is like. Not in the cartoonish manner of say, Jailhouse Rock. It is a journey into the dark, hopelessness of an evil institution resplendent with corruption, violence, and desperation. This is the rare Hollywood production that not only stirs up just about every human emotion, it reaches into your soul. All of the acting is superb, particular Tim Robbins. I suggest you read the book first, then watch the movie.
I cannot think of one reason I would not give this 10/10 just out of principle. Otherwise, it is the perfect movie with an incredible story, acting and euphoric finale that nonetheless is not without tragedy in the meantime.
Probably the best movie you will ever see and must buy on DVD
Fear can hold you prisoner, hope can set you free. After this watching this movie I understood what is freedom. If you are depressed just watch this movie, you'll understand the power of hope.

Direction:98% Acting:100% Dialogs:98% Screentime:91%(should be more) Story:89% Ending:watch the movie.
Movie right at the beginning starts showing its quality of dialogues and thats the key for bounding the viewers .Then a fine story with great actors leaves an everlasting impression. Point of life after prison is also shown with a heart touching scene.Humanity in prison is raised by another scene. Overall this movie can't be compared with others as such a style of escape can't be said to be inspired.Atlast the movie gives a message of friendship,love and hope. A way of making prisoner's life more useful to the society and how education can affect the system is suggested.Combining these all elements in a series of events is commendable.The tag line of this movie is inspiring.
Movie was a bit slow, but towards the end, it picked up the pace. It's a good movie to watch and learn film making. Good camerawork, acting, direction and even art setups. I was impressed to even watch recently again.
An amazing movie. Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and definitely one of the top "prison" movies of all-time. Pretty much everything about this movie works and works extremely well! The film touches upon many subjects, including the ideas of hope, redemption, love, loneliness, justice, life/death, friendship, endurance, fear, patience, inspiration and so much more. Watching this movie always makes me feel a million times better, and if that's not the greatest reason to watch a film, I don't know what is. Give it up to both Freeman and Robbins for completely engulfing their characters with heart, soul and the spirit of humanity. I appreciated the message in this film, I absolutely loved the way it ended, I surrendered to its pace, I enjoyed all of its characters, I thought it was wonderfully photographed, I loved the score and I could seriously watch this movie 10 times a year and not bat an eyelash the whole way through.
I have seen this movie so lately than many of my friends. But this movie still make me so excited after watch it. Great job.
This movie is so so great. It looks like no other movies. Well, I seldom gave 10 to a movie or series. Before this one, I only gave 10 to Gone with the wind and Arcane in IMDB. Great thanks to those creators playing a part in making it.
It is no wonder that the film has such a high rating, it is quite literally breathtaking. What can I say that hasn't said before? Not much, it's the story, the acting, the premise, but most of all, this movie is about how it makes you feel. Sometimes you watch a film, and can't remember it days later, this film loves with you, once you've seen it, you don't forget.

The ultimate story of friendship, of hope, and of life, and overcoming adversity.

I understand why so many class this as the best film of all time, it isn't mine, but I get it. If you haven't seen it, or haven't seen it for some time, you need to watch it, it's amazing. 10/10.
Shawshank Redemption like Forrest Gump, 1 + 1, And in my soul I'm dancing Until I played the box, Knocking on Heaven's Door, etc. This is the category of films after which you want to live and appreciate this life, as Andy Dufresne did . Secondly, the film itself is gorgeous and brilliantly shot. Thirdly, this film is a clear illustration that the success of the film depends not on a huge budget, not on a star cast, not on critical awards (yes, Moonlight?), not on a PR company, not on exorbitant box office receipts or awards (Escape from Shawshank has no big fees and no Oscar). No, a successful film needs a talented director and talented actors, and as a result, a film that has been on the first position of the Top 250 in IMBd and Kinopoisk for more than a decade. Fourthly, it's just a cinematic masterpiece, like the Titanic, The Green Mile, Forrest Gump, Hachiko and other great works.
Brilliantly presented story. I'm not talking about acting, because I'm not an expert in this area, and the Russian voice acting saves everything. I was more fascinated by how interesting and brilliant the story of Andy was told in the film. It would seem that the entire film takes place in one building, the main character does not plan to escape the entire film. He just lives and throughout the film we observe his relationship with other prisoners, guards, the head of the prison. And all this is really interesting. Personally, for two and a half hours, I never got bored. I was worried about Andy when he was molested by rapists. I sincerely felt sorry for him when they lost hope. I was happy for him when he did. After all, in fact, the film is about life in all the diversity of its emotional spectrum, at the head of which is hope, like a ray of light to which we all aspire. Thanks for the masterpiece!

You have already watched this, right? It is really easy to understand the love for this movie. I'll admit, when it comes to movie adaptations of books, the book is always better. How can it not be? You get way more detail than could be crammed into a two-hour movie. However, I still thoroughly enjoyed this adaptation. Yes, it does deviate from the short a little with character changes and omissions, but I don't think this film could have been any better. I am in line with the ten-star reviews that I'm seeing and the only reason I am not giving this parable for hope a ten myself is because I don't as a rule. Hope, aspiration, fighting the system, justice and humanism against the tyranny of the mainstream society/religion. This is the film.
Movies are all made for a purpose, most of those purposes are to make money - heck if they dont make money they cant make a movie, but some movies go beyond just trying to make a buck and really stand out as one of the best in their genres.

This is one of those movies.
The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having watched them.
Le Lorem Ipsum est impalement Du flux Dexter employÃ© dawns la composition et la muse en page avant impression. Le Lorem Ipsum est Lew flux Dexter standard Dee l'imprimatur depose Les Anne's 1500, qua nd UN Pinter antonym Assembly ensemble Des Margeaux Dee Dexter pour realizer UN livery specimen Dee polices Dee Dexter. Il n'a pas Fiat Que surviver cine sickles, Mai's s'est Aussie adaptÃ© Ã  la boutique informative, sans Que son continua n'en soot modifiÃ©. Il a Ã©tÃ© popularisÃ© dawns Les Anne's 1960 Grace Ã  la venter Dee fellers Letraset con tenant Des passages Du Lorem Ipsum, et, plus recommend, par son inclusion dawns Des applications Dee muse en page Dee Dexter, Commie Aldus PageMaker.
Shawshank is one of the finest movie I have watched till date. The actor and directors did a tremendous job with the story and cinematography.

The life of andy describes a common man who is dealing with normal life problems like we all do.

The life in jail is another thing with all the characters blending in each other.

The revenge of andy was outstanding when he flew out of the prison and the jailer commits' subside after getting exposed.

I had goosebumps when Red wrote "So was RED" on the wall where Brook did his signature.
"hope is a good thing. maybe the best of things. and no good thing ever dies."

with a line like that, how can it not be good? King is a genius of writing. Darabont is a genius of directing. dream team.
A non-complex movie which keeps you tied even when not experimenting with the narrative too much. Its not an anomaly that the movie is seen as one of the great uplifting movies of all time.
It is one of the best movies in the world that many people will join me. Watching very, very impressed. What it might be called the great stories of Stephen King anyway. Acting on cues can say is enormous. There's no posturing. Especially when Andy Dufrense incredible music that review still stands wandering on everyone's lips. Finale as you lose yourself in it is a movie you are getting into. Finals if he so exhilarating you a high-quality music. And finding that deserves really deserve. I watched this film very young age and it has taught me that the magic of cinema in a nice way. This film is one of the reasons I hate the Oscars. Will remain as the best film in more than 10 years, I believe wholeheartedly sites. Definitely one of the best films in the world.

This was the first movie that I remember as a little kid. When I saw it, i was captivated by the perfect acting of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. I thought all the prisoners were actually prisoners serving life sentences. It was the first Steven King movie I've ever seen, and it gave me the wrong impression about his type of movies.

The movie is about Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is convicted of murdering his wife and the man she was having an affair with. Andy is sent to jail were he tries to survive a new life behind bars. The movie shows his struggles with the inmates and prison officials. His closest friend being Red (Morgan Freeman) also shares those same struggles as Andy. And the movie has the most powerful ending of any movie I've ever seen.

I can say that everyone that has seen this movie truly loves it for every aspect of it. The Acting, directing, and writing, etc.
The first time I watched this movie it automatically became my favourite.

The way the story is portrayed and how smartly the directors have targed the viewers is incredible.

By the end you can't help but feel like this is a masterpiece and a once in a lifetime production that can only be pulled off by the best.
This is quite simply,the best film ever made. Taken from a short story by Stephen King,it turns out to be a true cinematic masterpiece. It takes you through just about every single emotion possible,happiness,sadness,elation,fear and jubilation at the end. The more you see this movie,the more you appreciate just how amazing it is. Each time you watch it you pick out something extra that you hadn't noticed before,and that only adds to your appreciation of it. Tim Robbins' character is one you sympathize with right from the word go,you're rooting for him all the way through the movie,when he has his run-ins with Boggs and his cronies,to when you see him on the beach and he sees Red walking towards him. I know nothing about lighting,editing,or abstract plot development. But I know an awesome movie when I see one,and this is most definitely one of those. See it,be amazed,then see it again and be even more awestruck by its magnificence
Drama on this movie is deep, this movie not only about escaping from prison but tell about relations cast. Morgan Freeman young is Old haha.

shawshank was one of the first videos i ever purchased. this film has it all; great character development; poignant humor; heart-in-throat drama. this was the first time frank darabount directed a stephen king story - the second time was The Green Mile. needless to say, the darabount-king hookup provides strong filmmaking for the theater-goer.

a must see.
Never have i seen a movie so well directed the script was genius....one of the best movies ive ever seen.....10/10 eaisly!!! Morgan freeman and tim robbins made this movie work....if forest gump came out a year later this movie would have swept the oscars.

There is nothing that i can say that has not already been said in a very positive way about this movie.I simply loved it.I do wish however that a "Special Edition" DVD of Shawshank would be released that would include the 1 hour TV feature of all the actors making comments on it.The current dvd does not have enough included for a great movie of its stature. This movie will certainly become a classic.Watching this movie actually makes me feel proud to be human.It re-affirms my belief in mankind.Now if only every president,prime minister and leader would watch it and get the same feeling from it as i did......geez....maybe they would WAKE UP and realize that "Life Is To Short"....Get Busy Living or Get Busy Dying!!

What can I say that hasn't already been said. A fantastic movie which has been played to death on TNT. Still, it's a great film. One of those films that jocks say is their favorite film to show they're film buffs. Anyway, a great movie with a lot of heart.
This ranks as one of my all time favourite movies. There is so much to love about this movie, the characters, Morgan Freeman's narration and the story. The movie runs for quite a while, but it hardly seems so. A definite must own movie.
This would have to be one, if not the greatest movie i have ever seen. Why Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman and Frank Darabond did'nt win a thing from the work they put into it is so beyond me, this has the perfect quality of what Oscar Winning movies are made of. Compared with many other heart wrenching films made to date this movie is Good, Better, Best.
This is a moving picture that will leave you with an experience. There are still films I need to see, but so far this ranks as without a doubt my favourite. No other film has provided me with such a tremendous emotional rush in its last third, or set itself up so well to do so with everything before it. A fantastic story told by the best of direction, acting and music. The Greatest.
This film of the nineties was issued in 1994 And be the owner of a prominent layer serious and intelligent character then Zjk with criminals and murderers in prisons Shawshank Redemption environment for the murder and killed ?!

This type of movies or stories possible we followed many of them in these years, but strongly this output? I can not imagine.

Actor Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins have played their role very excellent, I have not seen for Tim, but this film indeed.

In fact movies jailbreak Tsthoeni strangely

Nothing like The Shawshank Redemption

I rated this movie a 6 mainly because not only is this based on a Stephen King novel, but it is also IMDb's No.1 rated movie! I had very high expectations and presented this movie to watch with friends during our "movie night". I have to be honest, my high expectations did lead to a slight disappointment.

I feel the movie was quite slow paced, it is about 2 and a quarter hours long and I felt a few parts could have been cut. The acting was definitely excellent, Morgan Freeman delivers his best all the time and the storyline and plot were very clear. One main thing though is that I don't understand how almost everyone is rating this a 10/10 when I feel there are many more movies probably more deserving? Could be classified as a good movie, a really good movie but certainly not a great movie.
Extremely well written script and story. One of the best dramas of all time! It makes you to think about basic things that you have and don't appreciate enough.
To me, it's the supporting cast and the attention to detail in this time period movie that make it an outstanding movie. It's in a class with The Godfather and A Man For All Seasons. Outstanding finish after considering how we viewers suffered through the prisoners' treatment at the hands of the guards and administration.
You do not need to know about the plot or the characters or the actors, know only this:

Shawshank redemption is an amazing film. You must watch this, you will not regret it.
Shawshank Redemption is the greatest prison film ever made, in fact it is probably the greatest film ever made. Morgan Freeman is absolutely brilliant and is mirrored by a surprising Tim Robbins this is a devastating, heartwarming, riveting cinema at its very best everyone will remember this film 10/10 and justifiably so.
Let me keep it straight and simple..

I am simply too impressed and therefore out of words to describe what this movie portrays.

The acting and realism of this fiction is eye catching. I really wonder how much better it would get if it was based on a true story.

Indeed, you can rate, review, describe, audit, revise or summarize a movie, but not art.

Whether you are a movie fan or not, simply don't miss this one if you are a human !

BTW, Mr. Brooks was my favorite character.
Shawshank Redemption along with Casablanca, Citizen Kane, Star Wars, Goodfellas, and the Godfather are worth every amount you spend. Even though this movie isn't at all like the Stephen King novel "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption", this movie has done some amazing changes with comparisons to the novel and ultimately, I thought the film was better than the novel itself. I was blown away by the storyline, especially when Morgan Freeman was narrating. However, it was a disappointment that the film never won any of seven academy award nominations. If you are looking for a film to watch: one that has an amazing script you hardly see in today's films, one that has some great actors, and one that shows a strong bonding of friendship... this is the one to see! I give this film a 10 out of 10 because it was worthwhile watching and was worth every penny I spent on the 10th anniversary DVD.

I don't understand how this movie managed to get to Number one on this site. While it's a good movie with talented actors, it's just not as entertaining and solid as other movies that i believe deserve the top ranking.

I enjoyed watching it, and it really doesn't deserve the 1/10 rating I've given it (thats only to bring it lower on the top 250) it just isn't as good as other movies I have seen and loved such as 'Trainspotting', 'Pulp Fiction' and 'Donnie Darko' for example.

These movies are solid performances with a strong theme in one direction, while I feel that The Shawshank Redemption flounders around with it's, slightly lame, hope and friendship theme, thats just not as entertaining as others.
I'd like to remind those few Nay Sayers that have labeled SSR as an overrated film that it sure wasn't overrated by the Academy in 1994. In fact, it didn't win a single Oscar! Thanks to IMDB, the public has spoken -it's truly a People's Choice! Obviously, we each have a right to our opinion, and I respect (though cannot understand) the opinions of those that have expressed dissent about the film. Rather than remain in a quandary as to how it could have been elevated to number 2 all-time, perhaps you should try watching the film again to see if, by chance, you missed the boat on it the first time around. There's no vote-fixing going on here, folks! I stand in harmony among those who have been enlightened by this masterpiece and lend my hand in lifting it to the top.


There isn't much I feel needs adding to the praise already given to this film. But I know exactly what another reviewer meant when they said they wished they hadn't seen this movie, so they could enjoy it for the first time all over again. It really is such a complete film, with an ending which has likely caused many to privately shed a tear and then deny it afterwards down the pub..... :-)
This movie, in spite of several violent scenes, is well acted and has a great plot line. The casting is excellent and the movie has moments of brilliance and is overall an excellent movie. The ending is satisfying and even though the characters are prisoners they have an air of honesty and a desire to simply (a) accept responsibility for their crime and (b) to be able to live a life of peace and pursue happiness. Far too many times, in movies and on TV, men in prison are shown to be soulless/corrupt/violent/without redeeming qualities and yet our prisons are FULL of people who are INNOCENT of the crimes they are in prison for and the cops/prosecutors are NOT always right and they are, in many cases, as corrupt as the worst offenders. This movie is a classic and has withstood the test of time. Take care and may God bless you.
The Shawshank Redemption, is without a doubt the greatest film the world has ever come across. From the moment i sat down to watch this, the mutual hype made me sceptical whether it will live up to my expectations, but it could not have blown me away any more than it did. Tim Robbins takes the leading role and in my opinion couldn't have done a better job, along with Morgan Freeman who delivered a fine supporting role. The compelling storyline, directing, casting and more importantly, acting throughout the cast made this my favourite film ever. I gave it 10 out of 10 because of this and out of the hundreds of films i have rated, it was the only one with a perfect score. This film is about as 'must watch' as it gets, and anyone who hasn't must do so right away otherwise they are severely missing out.

Great and well planned movie with perfect acting and thrilling plot

The Shawshank redemption is the first Frank Darabont's movie which has taken 7 Oscar-nominations from the Academy but the film not yielded a high profit.Why not? Well,the story of this movie is too good to be true.

The Shawshank redemption is based on the book by Stephen King and certainly this is the most brilliant adaptation which has ever based from the writer'novels. The playtime is rather long but seems to be not boring.It's excellently produced,and the acting(Tim Robbins and especially Morgan Freeman)is marvellous.The script is clever enough about the human's relationships and the escape from the prison.The characters and the story itself are clearly true.
This masterpiece has taught me the meaning of the word hope. The ending was far better than winning the lottery or even accomplishing your dreams.

Superb acting by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, a job beautifully executed.

When my little girl is old enough to understand the concepts of life, hope and dreams I will be sure to watch this movie beside her, God permit.

If you have not seen this movie, I highly recommend you do so. I will do my best to remember the words of wisdom and caring actions demonstrated by the character Andy. If we all did, we would all live in a better world.

10/10
This movie is one of those you need to watch, if you think you know society. As the plot grows Andy becomes the center of attention for the prisoners and warden. Finally having the chance to be free, it is ripped from him in a shocking discovery, he really didn't kill his wife!

The Shawshank Redemption gives an ode to movie viewers and enthusiasts since the film is based on a true story. Liken the film to war veteran on the verge of escaping his enemies stronghold after years of captivity. Finally as Andy tunnels, and climbs his way to freedom, he gets the sweetest satisfaction of knowing he can now start his life again.

I think this is an excellent film, I'm a bit of a "prison film freak" so among all prison films I'll rate this one as the second best. obviously Escape from Alcatraz with Clint Eastwood is the absolute best one! Well back to Shawshank.. The way the film is made is just extraordinary!! I Love the way Morgan Freeman plays his sympathetic character.. last part is a bit disappointing, cause it's too similar to escape from Alcatraz.

Well anyway it'll get *******/**********
The Shawshank Redemption is a film of great passion and gritty script.I love the entire detail structure of the movie.Almost the entire film is shot at the prison, adding to the feeling of isolation and routine.The simple yet hard to convey messages could not be handled more subtly than this.I have almost watched it more than 20 times.

The Bond between the characters played by Morgan Freeman (Red) & Tim Robbins (Andy Dufresne) feels fabulous when you finishes the film.Script and Dialogues are top notch. Frank Darabont directs with genius and masterfully transcending the script and gives something definitively spectacular. Hope is so powerful that it can make great things happen.Just go for it ...
Highly recommend highly recommend highly recommend



It was really co-relatable. Titles to the reviews play a big part in the approval of your reviews.If your titles are not upto the mark then there is a great change of your review being disapproved.

I have to say that at first, I thought this movie would be boring. The storyline seemed so plain to me that I thought it was just one of those movies I would fall asleep to. But, one day, I decided to give this movie a shot. The storyline was simple as I had expected it to be but the director definitely did a good job in keeping it interesting all the same. The acting was flawless and even though the ending was a little bit too 'happy' for me, it didn't hurt the movie as a whole. It's not the best drama I've seen in my life, but it's definitely a movie that will keep you entertained and make you think about certain things in life.
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.
Great perfomances. Intriguing script. Not a waste of time. Not a blockbaster type. A movie to remember.
Mg father kept telling me to watch this and I kept putting it off. One day I decided to watch it with him and I regret not watching it soon enough. Fantastic casting choices. Superb writing, it's a 10/10 from me and my pops.
An emotional rollercoster that plods along for almost 3 hours. It's only a few days later you realise how good a film it was and how it alters your perception of life itself.

You almost have to watch a second time just to try and understand what it is that you like so much, unfortunately, I still dont know why it has such an impact on me. I have now seen it 6 times and it still makes me cry in wonder!
This movie was very moving, from the characters to the story, job well done.
I heard about this movie very much some use to say "this is the greatest ever movie" but after watching it I started saying "what a movie(I mean awful)?There is nothing great about this movie its a boring 2 hours crap.The story is about a guy called Andy(Tim Robbins) is convicted with crime which he has not committed.The whole movie describes Andy life in prison and finally how he escapes from the prison which takes almost 20 years for him to escape.If anyone has a very high expectations about this film then please erase it.Its just a ordinary movie there is nothing in this movie.If someone want to kill a time then watch it.I m going with 6/10 for this movie.Not so good,Not so bad.

It is not my favourite movie ever but it works for almost everyone. That is saying a lot. It has emotion and it is difficult for me to find a movie so moving as this one, without being manipulative and cheesy. Hollywood seems stuck in creating much noise at first glance and being empty at posterior views. Here, it worked for me since the first view. The emotion is always there, sometimes taken from the dialogue, or from the soundtrack, or the unexpected direction the movie takes.
Really now. I can't say that this is the worst movie of all time, but it certainly isn't the greatest. The mere fact that TBS plays this movie sixteen times per week, thereby forcing you to watch it over and over again, does not mean that it is good. I therefore, call for a "surge" of negative reviews to be leveled against this mediocre film so that with the help of Mark Twain and his angels we will be able to oust it from its ill-deserved spot as IMDb #1 movie of all time. Honestly, my fellow Americans, this film is the kind of thing that makes us look bad.

Merry Christmas, and to all a good night.
This is a loooonnnnnggg movie but I didn't miss a second of it. Trust and friendship in such a deplorable situation is amazing. Truth can be found everything and even in through the bad. I hope to see a pt 2 of this
I love this movie. It had a meaning and the story was amazing. I wish it had a part 2

Redemption is a powerful tool and the dynamic tim robbins plays his character to absolute perfection. After being convicted for a crime of passion he did not commit, we follow the eyes of andy dufrane and his sometimes brutal encounters in the shawshank prison. Loss, entrapment and the powerful word 'hope' are some of the initial thoughts i have about the film, but the ending where a lanscape of the perfect shade of blue in the form of the ocean attests the beauty of this film- where there is hope and the psychological will to out- manuver the seemingly futile surrounding walls forms the heart of humanity and its existence
Spectacular, tremendous movie about hope, how ppl can never dont give up :v
The Shawshank Redemption is itself a masterpiece. Story revolves around the main charcter andy. and wonderfully crafted story around him. Also the use of background score and cinematogrphy plays wonderful role in the film.
Minden idÃ¶k legjobb filmje, Stephen King nagyszerÃ¼ regÃ©nyÃ©nek filmfeldolgozÃ¡sa.
This is the most upvoted movie by the imdb community an a few other polls. it is a masterpiece and a must watch nothing less. i see people saying it is the best movie of all time. well it is not. to major motion picture organizations and critics it is not even the best of 1994.
All time hit. Acting Level Infinity.

The only other movie i have ever seen that affects me as strongly is to kill a mockingbird.
When a soul is entrapped in an endless loop. you need focus and time.
Even before I saw this as the highest rated film on IMDB, this movie was my favorite. I remember my dad recommending it to me when I was in middle school but the cover just didn't captivate me to watch it. When I was in 7th grade it came on tv and my dad forced me to watch it. It was one of the greatest experiences of my life. Although I was young, the movie touched me in a way no other movie has been able to do. The journey of friendship, suffering, and hope can be experienced in your soul while watching. Because of this film I am now pursuing filmmaking as a career. It has changed my life.

I enjoyed this movie, but I still regard it as one of the most vastly over-rated films of all time. The villains in the film were 2-dimensional caricatures. There were no shades of gray in this film whatsoever. I can accept such villains when some element of the fairy tale, some element of the supernatural is introduced. For instance, it was okay for Chigurh to be cartoonish in No Country For Old Men because he was clearly supposed to be a symbol, a force of nature. The warden in Shawshank Redemption, on the other hand, isn't a force of nature, merely a poorly-written character.

Honestly, the Shawshank Redemption was absorbing, but it wasn't a "great film" (in the capital-letters sense) by any stretch of the imagination.
This is more of an appreciation to "The Shawshank Redemption", as if there were a high score than 10, I would have clicked it. In the history of penitentiary films, this one is on my top list, moreover, I find it a little influenced by the story of Papillon, however, have not read about this inspiration; thus if it exists, I would be proud of my theory.
Shawshank Redemption is a defining moment in cinema.

The movie (directed by Frank Darabont) takes a straight-forward, soul- searching novel by horror icon Stephen King and transforms it into a somber, bloated prison drama designed to fill you up with inspiration.

Thanks to supreme performances and beautiful cinematography, you get that inspirational jump-start frame after frame. And you get generous helpings of the novella's deft ironic humour about a inmate quietly turning a corrupt system against itself.

A small box office release which made its name once released on home video, this movie is well worth a watch if you happened to have missed it first time around.
I was forced to give this movie a rating of 10. Because this movie is a lesson on how life itself is, it deserves much more.

The last comment poster asked who the reader's "Andy" was. I ask that poster who his "Red" is :).

A little cheeky, but an important question, because Andy always needs Red to survive and make meaning of what is around them, of what is their life. Andy is a viewer in some respects, picking up and learning and teaching in a nonchalant manner.

I also believe, perhaps, Andy and Red often exist in the one and same person.
If you are looking for an interesting story that attracts you from start to end without any feeling of boredom, this movie provides a great example of that.

If you are looking for a movie that firms the meanings of deep friendship, and the wonderful feelings that have become rare at this time, this movie takes you far to live these rare feelings.

If you are looking for a story with twists that makes you amazed at the plot twist, I think this movie will surprise you seriously.

If you are looking for an unforgettable movie which sticks in your memory, a movie that stirs and simulates your human feelings, this is "The Shawshank Redemption" movie.
This is one of those movies that I will watch whenever I come across it. Fantastic acting and a surprisingly suspenseful tale. Highly recommend this movie for everyone.
If more people would watch the Shawshank Redemption before putting on a film maker hat and providing the public with the crud that's out there, I am convinced that the world would be a much better place! This film is just simply UNREAL! Great job all around and no wonder it's in the top 5 of the IMDB's all time best 100.
In every way shape and form, through and through, the greatest movie ever. This doesn't mean my favorite. This means the art direction the music the story the acting the lighting the ect ect ect were flawless. Total package of perfection.
The movie teaches us Patiance, Hope and true value of freedom.
Finally understand why it's such a highly acclaimed movie. Don't bother renting it. Just buy it so you can watch it over and over again throughout your years
this is truly a masterpiec of acting and storytelling and it is one of my favorites. It has such an amazing and powerful story of friendship and survival and that ending! a tad sentimental but so what! a movie like this needs to be sentimental. It cheers me up everytime i see it
This Movie was so amazing! fo freakin awsome! i watch it more then 1 times in years.
The best movie ever made. Perfecto. Andy duffreine is the ma
Very well done movie although I don't think it's as good as everybody says... One of the better movies I have watched and it is absolutely worth looking at it, no doubt! Unfortunately I don't like it so much anymore. That can depend on the amount of times I have watched it over the years at school etc. and it has gradually become a little more boring and I don't enjoy it as other movies like Batman. As a Tarantino fan I like more brutality in movies than drama. The actors, story and the quotes in the movie is a big plus though! If you like movies or TV-series that is inside a prison I strongly recommend the TV-series "Prison Break". Well, back to the topic. The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that is worth watching. If you haven't seen it before it will be a very good movie to watch with your family or friends. As I said earlier I don't like it that much these days but it feels more like it's not really my cup of tea... I give it a 9 out of 10, fare and square. /Andreas Flink
An excellent movie, viewers look like they follow the story.
This movie is the first in the top 250 list and I agree that it's a masterpiece. The actors chosen were incredible and the whole story was extremely interesting and involving. However, there were few flaws. In my opinion, the movie needed more action. Even thought the tension and action was building up as the minutes passed, it was not growing fast enough and after some time it get a little boring. Thankfully, the ending is astonishing and it makes you forget all the bad things that happened before in the movie. It can easily be labeled as that 'unique prison movie' which will never be over-passed in this category because there's never going to me a movie like this. There's no doubt that Morgan Freeman is the hero of the film with his acting and effort. In the end, the movie is a real masterpiece but I cannot call it the best movie ever made.
A perfect storytelling with the best actors created a legendary movie. I'm glad I watched this movie.
It's an old-fashioned movie. I've watched you for the last time. Again again, if I watch again. These kinds of movies are liked by everyone. He really deserves to be at the top of the list!
I would only put this movie behind the LOTR trilogy (I consider them one movie). It is a great tale and even though you know something good will happen, you don't know exactly how, though when looking back it was pretty clear. I value movies by how entertaining and captivating they are. This one was both. Many people like to put on their "film-maker" hats too much. This movie doesn't really show great symbolism or tricky camera work. Its just a very good story with very good acting. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are unreal, and all the supporting characters (Brooks, the prison guards, etc.) make the film complete. It took my a long time to see this movie, even though its on TNT and TBS like every weekend. I must say I was thrilled. Just excellent. 10/10 easy.


this has been said so many times before i may be mad watching this at alow ebb this film works for heart and soul of the individual watching this film is utter perfection and yet immediately after watching this i watched EDUCATING RITA now call me mad but i found these films quite similar in a way that RITA is also a prisoner trapped by her life surroundings wanting to become educated her motto as well is GET BUSY LIVING OR GET BUSY DYING back to shawshank this film is as i said pure perfection if you havent seen it WHY ?
This is just world class!! The acting is brilliant, the story is brilliant and the time went to fast. Seen it lots of times
This movie has changed my life, I started seeing things differently. It's a must watch for everyone. It's not just a 2 hour time pass , its way more than that. Definitely the best thing I ever saw.
Whenever this movie comes on I have to watch it and I love it every time. This movie is not a depressing movie overall and even though there are sad moments in the movie; there is also has a lot of humor about life as well. The warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red is what make this movie so great. There is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal worth, despite everything. The redemption and friendship theme of this movie is what makes it easy for us all to easily identify with these characters and evoke such emotions while we watch for the first time or the 20th + times you see it Like myself.
Just great no more words, everyone should watch this.
When viewers see a young banker's character (Dufresne) convicted of a gruesome murder, and later when they see him vindicate himself with the help of pure courage and hope, it evokes high emotions like triumph and hope. Each scene is skillfully written with viewers' perspective considered all through the film. Excellent work due to which Frank Darabont never need prove himself as a director again, because this one goes down in the history books as one of the best dramas ever written.

Dufresne's character does what's on his mind says and never shows feelings of captivity while at Shawshank. The character is carved out meticulously displaying traits like intelligence and a mind determined to survive

Morgan Freeman ('Red') delivers a brilliant performance, deserving the Academy Award that year which ultimately landed up with Tom Hanks ('Forrest Gump').
Harika bir filmdi Harika bir filmdi Harika bir filmdi Harika bir filmdi
this movie teach us about life,hope,dream,freedom ...diaouge of the movie are more and more effective.a sweet voice of Morgan freeman is amazing and Tim Robbins gave best performance of his career.brooks also a fantastic character..i watched this movie at first time at the age of 19 ..in this year 2013..it is still amazing and best after 20 years of its released. ONE WORD i will watch it still last time of my life...GREAT MOVIE THE SHAWSHANK AND REDEMPTION.story line of it is fantastic.directorial part also best and the musics or background musics it is just no word.one scene of movie i alway want to see is oak tree scene. a line "remember red :hope is a good thing,may be the best of things and no good thing ever dies.

I have never seen such an interesting film . A must watch for all
If I had to choose top 3 movies of all-time that I have watched, I would surely include this movie in that list. Such an original & realistic performances. Great movie. A must watch before you die!
Although the acting and directing was brilliant, the movie retained a somewhat unrealistic vibe. There is a very low chance that one will find as many civilized friends and people in a maximum security prison. There was no sign of any violent or aggressive behavior in many of the inmates. The only thing that reflected real prison life were the cells and the sisters. Do not take this wrong. I loved the movie immensely. It showed great imprisonment and in many ways was realistic. The acting from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman was perfect. The institutionalization of Brooks was very well portrayed. This movie had many great factors but not completely perfect. Overall I give this movie a 8.5.
Incredible movie. Very well interpreted and produced. It is a masterpiece.
This is the worstest movie i have see tyfussyhdtjigfd
This is easily the best movie I have ever seen. It wasn't a box office smash but it came on later and has become one of those rare films that will be talked about for generations. Tim Robbins is masterful as Andy Dufresne.
To anyone that says Forrest Gump was the best movie then you are insane. The Shawshank Redemption is the best movie I have ever watch. It doesn't have any problems whatsoever. While Morgan Freeman takes most of the attention, Tim Robbins was absolutely incredible. The Movies overall message is inspiring and is one that will truly make you smile. The movie is long but it is just the length that it needs to be and won't bother you. What sets this movie apart though is the acting. The acting was on a level I don't think we have seen since. The movie is one of the best of all time and I recommend it to anyone who wants a good story
Could watch this over and over again if I could

More films should be made l Me this
The movie revolve around null,so it is based on null and some order of alphabet


Must watch movie.... Ultimate screenplay...

TIM Robins superb.. A masterpiece from Frank Darabont ... this moviemade ma day....... the one of the most intelligent movie ever saw.. It is an extraordinary motion that people "will" be talking about in 50 or 100 years. Stephen King"s novel adaption best movie... Stephen King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and excitement. It tells a lesson about life. It's a poignant story about hope. Hope gets me.... It's also a story for freedom. Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and Robbins are majestic in their performances.
At first I thought this will be a movie about some guy in prison who faces problems and overcomes with his goodness.I want to skip watching it(because I don't watch movies giving messages which are not possible practically).If I would have done that, my life would not be as great as it is now.It changed my life a lot by making me believe in hope.

I suggest every human needs to watch this movie. No wonder it is top movie of all time.It shows the power of hope.Tim Robins and Morgan Freeman brings life to their characters.I haven't seen any Frank Darabont movies but I can say it was his best.

If you are in bad phase of your life, I suggest SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION. It will help you a lot psychologically.You wouldn't understand what I said till the end of movie. Watch it as soon as possible.

The great words spoken by Andy to Red. Never give up. Shawshank is a movie based on a book by Stephen King. When I tell people this it is hard for them to believe. This is the best adaptation of a King story that he has not written the screenplay for. Even though some of the characters in the movie don't fit the descriptions from the story they work.

The movie shows the life of a prisoner convicted of a crime that he says he did not commit and the great friendship he develops with Red and the daily problems a prisoner faces. This is a great story and I never get tired of watching it. I have seen it 30 times and it gets better every time.

Get busy living or get busy dying.
This is certainly a good movie, but it's not the greatest movie of all time. People hype up this movie too much which persuades other people to develop the same opinion as them. When people are asked what their favourite movie is, they often reply with Shawshank because they don't want to be seen to have a different opinion from the norm. People should develop their own opinions. It's good to see that critics don't rate this film as highly as the general public - I guess this proves that critics truly do know more about movies than the amateurs who consider this film to be the greatest of all time. I also found this film fairly predictable as it was obvious that he would escape in the end.
A must watch movie. Redefines the emotions like hope and trust etc. The character of Morgan Freeman is also fantastic. Got to know what prison is . Life Sentence is one of the most torturous Punishment one can get. The planning process of the escape is just mind boggling. But I still can't believe that a person can keep his hope for this long. Al though I doubt that in 19 years, his cell was not changed. But of course this movie was released way back in 1994. Got to know much about American prison and prisoner- maintenance system that existed then. Morgan Freeman plays his character well and so does Tim. every part of the movie will be well understood as the movie progresses. Its a long but interesting movie. After all, these many internet reviewers cant be wrong. But it is not the best movie of all times.

So simple, don't do like me and waste 2 years saying "meh I'll watch it anothertime" just watch it when you find it! You will enjoy it
Now writing a review to read for around 1 million viewers who have already watched the movie may sound foolish. But since I am on a big mood swing of excitement, I am writing it. Some movies never get old. Some reasons are no use of technology, never fading human feelings, universally accepted ground concepts, etc. So, maybe because of these reasons, The Shawshank Redemption seems to have found its way to the Top Alltime 250 Movies in this website. Overall, the movie made my day. In fact it made my whole year. The main actor of the movie is no less than any super hero. Also you ought to believe that these kind of people, these kind of incidents do happen in the real world. Although may not with these kind of drama. But, you can say, they do. I really regret that this movie did not earn much during its initial time of release. A Straight sweep Full 10.
You will see everything in this movie, TOP i recommended
Central to the film's success is a riveting, unfussy performance from Robbins. Freeman has the showier role, allowing him a grace and dignity that come naturally. There are times when The Shawshank Redemption comes dangerously close to sounding one of those "triumph of the spirit" notes. But most of it is eloquently restrained. As the uptight banker, Robbins does some of his subtlest acting to date. As his hardened but resilient friend, Freeman is simply miraculous, giving the role so much depth, dignity, and good humor that you feel that you've known this man forever. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final redemption. Some of "The Shawshank Redemption'' comes across as outrageously improbable. Yet the film keeps pulling you back with its sense of striving humanity slowly turning the tables against evil.
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best movies I have ever seen. When I was younger I would always see this movie playing on various channels and always wondered why. What made this movie so special? Well, the answer is pretty much everything in this movie is special, from the performances of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman whose characters are really fleshed out in subtle ways to the overall themes that have made the movie so watchable ever since it was first released. There is a reason this movie is still being played on channels to this day! If you have not seen this movie, than go watch it immediately! You wont regret it.

Whilst I respect the opinions of others and enjoy reading a variety of contrasting reviews, I find it surprising that the Shawshank Redemption has been voted the greatest film of all time.

I enjoyed watching this film and feel that the story is generally good and the cast is excellent, resulting in distinct and complex characters whilst providing an interesting insight into the mentality and inter- relationship of prisoners and guards. However, I don't feel that the story was challenging, the concept is not particularly original and borders clichÃ© when considering other prison films, the film is, in my view, unnecessarily long and, crucially, I didn't like the ending.

I do feel that this is still a very good film, however there are other films, indeed other prison films, which are better than this one.

What can you say, this movie is one of my favorites. I have to watch it every time it comes on TV. I love it!
I love this movie son much. It ages well And have a great cast.
When someone who has never seen this asks why this is my favorite movie - I never know what to tell them. It's the perfect movie, it's like God decided to allow the creators, writers, and actors to blend perfectly together - with the end result being the greatest movie ever written. The first time I saw it, I thoroughly enjoyed it but didn't allow for the intake of dramatic genius to fully set in. I have seen it over 100 times since I first 'experienced' it, and now it is impossible for me to watch any scene without getting chills down my spine. Frank Darabont should have a day made in his name for his adaptation of Stephen King's compelling and brilliant story. No one could have surmised that allowing for one of the more likable inmates to be killed would make the movie even MORE powerful...but he did. One last thing...I just wanted to thank God for allowing them to change the ending to that of a diminishing Robbins and Freeman at the end, no words needed.
One of the best movies I have ever seen, I can watch this every few months or so and still enjoy it.

So in the beginning I wasn't anticipated to watch this movie. I judged it would be slow, uninteresting, and overrated with people jumping the bandwagon of how good it was. But as I was seeing how the movie was unfolding, I was surprised to see how interesting it really was. There wasn't a dull moment of it. I was pleased with how the ending made me feel. I think the big thing about this movie is how it captures your emotions. The actors were great, and the story was great too. Overall I give it a 9.5. But I do think this is one of the best movies I've ever watched. It is definitely in my top three. Don't let the title stop you from watching it if it sounds boring to you. This is a movie I would watch over and over again. It does live up to the hype.


Without a doubt the best movie ever made. Not one single flaw in all of the categories. I wish I could watch this everyday like it is my first time... Thank you to all cast and crew. I miss my friend...

If you're in the mood for a good movie based on a true story that takes place during a seemingly simpler time and played by really great actors, then this movie is a good choice. A man wrongly accused of murdering his wife is sent to prison where he meets his new life long best friend, Red. It is the type of movie that pulls you in close so that you can't help but to like these "criminals". It's not often that any movie good or bad has a good ending. This movie has a very good ending and leaves you with the answers you were looking for. You laugh, cry (or at least feel like you might),get mad and cheer for the good guys and the mild mannered sarcasm. A man who never should have been in prison in the first place ended up making it a much better place, exposed tax scam, educated others, provided tax advice, made life long friends, developed allies and THEN receives his redemption. It's a battle of wits, showing of strength and endurance of pain (emotional & physical) throughout the movie. I have never met anyone who hasn't absolutely loved this movie.
What can I say, it is films like this that just give you that great feeling. This is a perfect film for themes such as hope, friendship, freedom and corruption. Now for those who have not seen the film I won't say anything, so do not worry, but just to tell you. If you are into the themes I have just mentioned, then you will love this. Tim Robbins adopts the role of Andy Dufresne as his own and Morgan freeman plays Red in an emotional and convincing manner and really did shine throughout the film. So if you want to see a film thats emotional, intellectual, violent and warden smashing, then this film is for you. It will give you chills.
OK, so before i get started i'd like to say that in my personal top 50, this would probably make it in about the 40-45 mark, this wouldn't be in the top 10's, 20's or 30's because of personal taste, nostalgia factor etc etc. (and i've seen too many films to know).

All i'll say is that this film deserves the #1 spot (on IMDb), the story, characters are some of cinemas most realistic and the last 3rd, leaves you high on hopes and great heartfelt joy. This made me even shed a few tears.

I'm very pleased i saw this film, and respect it as it should be, one of the all time best.
I've watched this movie at least once a year since 1994!

Bollywood is such a crap. Hollywood got Mind Bollywood got relatives.superb movie. enjoyed a lot... no body can make this kind of movie... great movie. amazing movie ever made... real life situations... think like expert. Bollywood sucks... Hollywood rocks...Bollywood is such a crap. Hollywood got Mind Bollywood got relatives.superb movie.
One of Stephen King's BEST adaptations (one of the best I've seen anyways). Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give all-star performances, it has a really good story line, and the directing, producing, music score...etc. all comes together quite well and really shows off King's talent for storytelling. Maybe it's just me, but I don't think I even have any cons for this this one. No bad acting, no weird camera shots, no mistakes (as far as i know) but maybe I will watch it again and re-edit my review accordingly. Maybe I missed something? Or maybe it really IS flawless? That is just my opinion, so watch it for yourselves and form your own. :D
Having watched it too many times, I still find myself thrilled and touched by it. I do not see it as a film "made in prison" but more like "in life". It is the strength underneath that makes you what you are. Sometimes it needs more than a good director, a writer or an effective cast to create a masterpiece. "The Shawshank Redemption", for me, has it all! ... First Morgan Freeman and then Tim Robbins, push us towards a world made of realism, darkness, acceptance and redemption, and finally victory over those who believe that power over other people makes them powerful... such a joke indeed. I really believe that one must watch this film at least one time. There will be much to learn.
if your looking for a really moving deep story line. with much discovery of the human life and journey to over coming obstacles and much of what fine filming is all about. this is your ticket to Shawshank Redemtion. i highly recommend this to all those of Morgan freeman lovers. and as well prison stories. this moving will get you moving in places you never thought of. and keeps you thinking to the very end. and how as humans what do you have to do to fit in life. from my overall experience watching this film. all the emotions and right hit points that deliver this masterful work piece of art. it really defines movie making and turning points of life. i only wish that more film can at least get as close to this now a days. hope that you find everything your into looking for in this film. like i did, and took from it and made an enjoyment out of it. =]
This movie is in so much depth.this is the best and will be the best movie of all time.The direction , the acting and the way music was played and how slowly the suspense was build throws light upon why this is ranked 1 in IMDb list.Remember, Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things. And no good thing ever dies. I will be hoping that this letter finds you, and finds you well.Get busy living, or get busy dying.These quotes are so damn good.Andy: Here's where it makes the most sense. You need it so you don't forget. Forget that there are places in the world that aren't made out of stone. That there's a â€“ there's a â€“ there's something inside that's yours, that they can't touch.






My wife asked to watch a movie this past weekend and when I suggested this over the masterpiece that is The Cat In The Hat, she filled for divorce. not a poggers moment
I think everyone who saw this movie will like it. If you are director or director photography, this is the best technique of camera shot. It looks like a easy shot but it will be great. Some shot in this movie i think it will use after effects for making that shot but in that time i think adobe just was born. Thus the director of this movie is intelligent. He can make a lot of technique in that time but some shot has a mistake. We will can observe some shot is not real or unusual. I think overall are great. I copy some technique to improve my film too. The actors of movie are smart. They make the audience believe with their acting. I love it too much.
If intention is what counts, A Dream of Freedom is a great film, especially when it focuses on showing the strong friendship of the protagonists. One of the most beautiful friends ever portrayed in the movies. A movie that is very exciting, With great interpretations of great actors

So why am I posting a review now, pity me because I just acknowledge this film a while from my film class. As the same as other review I was moved by this film, this movie affects me strongly that even I watch it over and over again. I've always have the impression of the first time seen.

The best thing is you have to prepare to be moved by the hopes that emerged in this story, no special effects or tricks. This is just plain simple and impressive by its owns way portraits the very common life of men. In such despair , its amazing that when you watch this movie you can taste the freedom. The strong power of hope and determination will blow your mind.

So no doubt this is the best film I've ever seen, as far as my concern there is no minor things that will stop me from rating it 10.
What a great movie. What journey and what struggle. The film maintains the viewers' interest thought in the middle just for a moment you might get the impression the film is a little too long. It is a classic. The acting is superb. The plot is strong enough to keep you glued to the screen, and the twists and turns make you feel you are watching a real situation from life, with artistic beauty about it. You never know how the movie will end, and then there can a twist yet in the tale that may turn out to be the very essence of the movie. The film is rightly an academic content by now. Apparently, you may feel the film is a little boring due to a prominent and beautiful woman missing, but the fact is the film does not fail in keeping you interested in it until the very end.
Oh dear, one of the finest movies that I have ever seen!

The story of hope, belief, friendship and never giving up!!

The best movie of all time. I watched it more than 10 times. Best ever no doubt!!
Part of that probably comes from the concept of tolerance, hope to bring freedom. It was answered clearly for Andy who does not make mistakes But patience to stay inside jail Doing what he loves, offering hope, goodness and kindness to others. (Proposed channels of tax evasion for the atrocities against their jailers, like beer, colleagues, by himself, does not touch alcohol, etc.) say it is my view that the Andy is in jail without fault. But he did not complain much. Not revenge Not rampant, but Andy use his intelligence and fortitude to fight. Finally, the truth and the good that makes this movie is all about

I could write a long review, but I think 5his movie is perfect and I can't find anything to criticize and it gets the rating it deserves for best movie of all time. If there's one thing I can say is the performances the style everything was perfect.

The Shawshank Redemption actually an outstanding film that come up with a story of dealing with prisons as seen by several prisoner. In the movie show many social problems, which are all discussed in the movie. Also it has a emotionally attached at the end of the film it almost make me cry out. This movie can capture and identify with American male spirit as it shows in movie. The movie actually talking about the development of friendship between Red and Andy is charming and appealing. For this movie is consisting of a beautiful personal film fantastic acting well crafted story, great scenes, great characters and awesome plot, which make this movie turn out this good. It's the most touching and heart warming film of human spirit that I have seen and it might be a great movie to watch with family and be one of the best movies of all time. This film truly is a masterpiece. If you miss this film you will be missing out one of the finest film.




brilliant screen play...very important movie for all The way Director narrates the story line was brilliant.. Performances of each actors was superb.. at the end..director stand top.. kudos to each technician in the movie..apart from other sections ...backgraound score was brilliant..to beat this movie record was takes more time in the history
Movie goes slow but this was one the best movies and one should watch this one.
Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest movies of all time. It is a must see. The Acting by the two protagonists are spectacular. The use of Music in this movie is genius. And the camera work gives hope to any aspiring film maker. It also gives hope to the entire cinema world. 1994 what a year for movies! I end with a quote "he dispersed like a fart in the wind."
Iguovbobvbobhoojpj[j[j[j[j[j[j[j[[jo[j[j[j[j[j[j[j[j[j[j[[j[
You want a Connection with Movie ? You want a story that should continue in the movie ? You want to connect your Emotions with the movie ? "Hope"is the Answer For The Shawshank Redemption Simple approach yet dramatic appeal . The Answer - HOPE is the displayed with classical touch of relation to the character and human spirit. Life Can break your Knees but your mind can stand up bright if you have hope is the best message passed on by The Shawshank Redemption through the movie. Mr Director has a simple way of conveying the idea of plot by properly justifying the characters and their role with qualities they en role.

This was the only movie I ever re whatched,, I've never loved a movie like this one,, But for sure last week I think it's was the 9th Time i saw this movie it's really good and never boring.

Need i say more the title of this review says it all...
I've grown up with my parents talking about how great this movie is and finally I've got round to seeing it. It really is as brilliant as they say. It's moving, powerful, emotional, and brilliantly acted. I particularly loved Morgan Freeman's character. It had the same sort of tone as Forest Gump, and now I am a certified fan. Despite its age,it's still as amazing and excellent today as it was after its release. Very impressed and I'd definitely recommend it to everyone. The plot twists are also very enjoyable. When we see that a hole has been made through the prison wall, and we see the main character crawling through a sewage pipe to escape! Remarkable, moving, powerful stuff. I might just go and re-watch it now.
Top film,seen it at least 5 times. Not to be missed
Best movie i have ever seen. This movie is completely different from the rest of the movies i've seen. The actors were outstanding. They gave their 100%. Dramatization was on point. 10/10
Hmmmm!What a movie. My two pennies' worth is that you get your best friend to watch this movie with you, because this movie explains the definition of what true friendship entails The Shawshank Redemption epitomize everything you want in a movie. The suspense,thrills,frills,intrigue,pain,and hope exhibited in the movie was phenomenal. What more can I say about Morgan Freeman,his performance in the Shawshank Redemption was great and he exhibited mastery in delivering his lines. Tim Robbins,he truly justified his selection to be the lead actor in the movie. Please watch this movie and thank me later.
Best Prison Break Movie! It is a masterpiece!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I indeed think that this picture is forever going to hold the audience's attention. Never gets old and never disappoints.
One of the all time greats, never get tired of watching
Definitely one of the best films in film history. screenplay, acting, audios everything blended perfectly. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman performances were very good. A film I will watch many more times.
Brilliantly crafted film from beginning to end that has only gotten better with age. The cast gives career best performances, with Morgan Freeman cementing his place as Hollywood's favorite narrator in Red while Robbins is charming & mysterious as Andy Dufrane. They are surrounded by an excellent supporting cast, particularly Robert Gunton as the menacing warden & James Whitmore as the tragically fated Brooks. Behind the camera, Frank Darabont brilliantly adapts Stephen King's story and quite frankly improves it by condensing the story & characters (this, like "Jaws", "The Godfather", & "The Princess Bride" rank as films that are actually better than their books). His direction is nicely non-flashy & gives the actors plenty of time to breathe. He also doesn't cheat in building towards the brilliant ending (one of the best in film history) laying clues but not spelling them out, making repeat viewing all the more fun (notice how Andy is only presented from other's perspectives & not his own). Simply put, one of the best film's produced in the last 30 years and a classic by any definition.
I don't know what to say. A film I just can describe as an absolut masterpiece !!
Shawshank Redemption made me feel the above TAGLINE when i first saw the film. It moved me even more when i saw it for the second time under different circumstances. Till now it still amazes me how this film can keep motivating me and my friends whenever we see the film again.

That Explains it all. Short & true.
The movie ,though good,is relatively slow and simple than a movie should be of such a high rating.The major criteria of its high rating is its simplicity and the presentation of prison life in the movie which is actually quite convincing.Also the movie is quite emotional that makes you feel cry at some moments.The plot of the movie is simple and short enough.The director focuses much more on filming prison life than completing the plot which is quite good from critics point of view.We find this attitude among directors in very few movies nowadays.Freeman, as usual,out shows his impressive acting skills which adds a great flavor to its originality.But if you like action,drama,thriller movie this might not be able to cater your demands.Instead if you like to have a good time watching some fine stuff in terms of originality its a must watch.
I watched this movie again and again. No movie is better than shawshank. morgan freeman narrate is 100% deserved an oscar .Unbelieveable dialog , great story and perfect ending .Simply the best movie in the universe . I can't believe my eyes for this superb film.
There's a reason why The Shawshank Redemption is top of so many film lists. It is a brilliant adaptation of the book by Stephen King. It captures the eloquence of his words and brings the characters to life. You care about the people in this film, and you're hurt when they are hurting. You want them to succeed, and the pay-off more than justifies the journey. If you haven't seen this film, why not watch it next?
My Review will be in 5 Main Parts: 1- The Goal (10 out of 10): The Movie Goal is "freedom" and it's only right image (main character point of view), The movie portrayed some image of freedom for some people "The person who used to slavery did not afford freedom, the one that was as same as the first one when he found a goal for his life he found the true freedom and the main character of course who did not forget the meaning of being free. 2- The Excitement: (10 out of 10) It found here in suffering of the main character which was touch the heart. 3- The influence: (10 out of 10) The movie have portrayed alot of joy, suffering, sad, happy, ... etc situations which was truely good enough. 4- The Vital (10 out of 10): Was there absolutely in every part of the movie. 5- Overview (7 out of 10) As general it was very good movie *BUT* There was no need of the scene of his wife with the traitor, but what can i say: it is the dirty cinema "Ecstasy for money". My Rating: 47/50 == 9/10
One of the best movies ever! The writing, the acting, the story all great! Well done! :)
best movie i watched ever. I had most trouble believing were not the way the criminal always barely escapes, not the story or the era or the feel of the movie, but that Cusack's character had any feelings at all. He seemed apathetic and occasionally angry. That was it. And that made the film, a good film overall, not be better than average.
Shawshank Redemption is in my opinion one of the best films ever. It is a great film because of its amazing performances given by the actors. Some amazing writing, directing and overall atmosphere. This film is very good as it captures prison life very well and its story is magnificent having the Characters changing around and doing certain things that push this film along. This film feels like it should be a TV-show as there is so much that happens in this film it could easily be a 6 episode series. The characters that are introduced through the film only add more elements for the characters to play off of making it very easy for the actors. I don't need to say much more, this film is a masterpiece, you must watch this film at some point in your life.
When I went to watch this movie, I was feeling particularly down so I did what any normal person does and googled 'feel good Netflix movies'. Of course I had heard of Shawshank redemption- who hasn't- but I was surprised to find it on a list of feel good movies as I had always had it down as a sad, depressing movie about loss. I'm pretty sure I presumed this because of where it was set- in a prison- one of the most hopeless places a man/woman could be if you ask me. However, while watching the movie I realised I was wrong. This movie is about hope, acceptance, love and friendship a,lung many other important themes. The story line is just stunningly moving and the cast... Just amazing. I would recommend this movie to anyone who needs a feel good movie that isn't just another chick flick, that needs a movie that will hit home.
I love thisfilm and it is cool. I like this. I like this
We're now in 2020 and I still consider this movie one of the best I have ever seen. I watch it every couple of years or so and it always amazes me. I can now say it's an excellent classic. Pretty much every review here says it all. Brilliant I'm every level.

very nice very interesting films 2 man coming and go prison and one man do very best things he escape and we don't know how you must watch this film how this films scenarist write this Ä± cant understand.when Ä± see this film Ä± am be fine.Ä± am very happy for watch this films.Morgan is best actor in this films and we want to see him again.what can Ä± do for it.Ä± want to be a good man.but Ä± am afraid of prison.did you ever seen Alcatraz.this film is good too.Clint is very good in this film.another film is great escape.and another film is Arnold play in.who is the best actor in this film Ä± don't know but it must take Oscar.when Ä± come back to there Ä± want to go there
Watched this movie over and over whenever I'm in a feeling to see a "compact" movie.
Among the top ten best movies I've ever seen. It's a beautiful story. Morgan Freeman played a lot. It's a masterpiece.
This film is it 10/10. Great masterpiece of a prison movie.
We rarely see such great movies, they are among my best. The sequence of events is wonderful, the choice of actors is wonderful, the duration of the movie is also very excellent, an integrated movie.

One of the best movie i watched ever.before i watch this movie every time i see this movie imdb 1st rating movie but now i have idea why this movie is top.

What can I say about a great movie ummm GREAT MOVIE !
Everything about this movie is flawless. No better way to describe it in my opinion.

And we waiting more movies like The Shawshank Redemption
The movie is full of hope and it got me a lot of positive energy. The cast and music are great. I liked the screenplay and it has a really surprising ending. I regret that this movie had to compete with other powerful movies like "Forrest Gump" in the Academy Awards and lost many nominations to it.
Andy is introduced to the library by Brooks in 1949. Brooks points out a Louis L'Amour section, but L'Amour's first book under his own name wasn't published until 1953 (he had written a series of Hopalong Cassidy novels in the late 1940s under the name Tex Burns), and didn't produce enough books to warrant his own section until the 1960's.
This is the film that made me realize how far a short story can go. The first time I saw this film I was quite young, didn't fully understand the content but I knew I was watching a master piece and knew that I needed to focus on my writing. Whittmore knocks his performance out of the park. I miss him and Frank is now one of my hero's.


Just amazing.No words needed. It makes you feel sad but in the same time ask questions to yourself anyway you can not stop watching it.

The which was #1 in the still feel proud about that. It tell that an accountant which doe't commit an crime of murder. And he been sent jail for that and there the story begins he mean time go work with others prisoner's and help cops for hide payment of tax to the government and he planned to escape form prison when the day he came and he escapes.

The Count of Monte Cristo isn't a very good book, and has spawned a few pretty poor films, but it's the ideas which make it an enduring story. Now whether Stephen King was consciously inspired by Dumas's ("Dumass's") book when writing the original short story I don't know - what I do know is that Frank Darabont took a dour, typically coarsely-detailed potboiler and evolved it into something special. The big step for me, was that having taken an interesting idea and made it good, Darabont then found an ensemble cast and a cinematographer who could make it sing. I don't think there's a dull line of dialogue in the movie, and barely a camera shot either out of place or wasted. Why it is that equally talented filmmakers can spend millions and produce the kind of mindless gibberish which actually wins Oscars (like 'Braveheart' did in the year 'Shawshank Redemption' was nominated) I'll truly never fathom. Maybe there should be another way of formally recognising talent: wait ten years then take a vote - that way the mindless and the popular will have time to find their level and what's left is worth remembering.
The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense, victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.
Everything about this film is just amazing. I could watch it everyday of my life.
The Shawshank Redemption is a remarkably compelling film with a powerful message. Maybe for everyone!
This is the best movie of all time hands down. Everything about this movie is Amazing! What are you doing with your life if you haven't seen this movide
A good old tale. Two hour twenty two minutes of unsurpassable storytelling. A poetic dish served by the masterclass.
In 2017 I watched this movie. I enjoyed every moment from the beginning to the end. Nowadays movies rely on effects more than stories and maybe very old movies depend on stories more. However, 90s movies have very good story and still with attractive effects. Unfortunately this movie wasn't successful in box offices, it deserves more credits.
Performances, Direction, Lighting, Writing, Location management, Production....... All completely on point, I love this movie.
One of the epic and remembered movie of all the time. it's an one of the best movie ever watched.
The shawshank redemption is a great movie. The story of the movie and the messages about love, friendship, hope and the best of them freedom and how freedom can change the person and how the prison had a lot of incident people and all of this with the great performance of tim Robbins and the remarkable voice of Morgan freeman all of this is so great but this don't mean that the movie has issues at least in my opinion there was one character at the movie we had to know more about him i don't want to say who he was because this review is no spoilers and the second issue of the movie is it didn't make any sense that warden Norton character trust a prisoner that much and didn't even have suspension to him again i don't want to say who was the prisoner because this review is no spoilers so the movie is great but it's not that very huge masterpiece! It's not the best movie of all time! It's not the non issues movie!
This is a film that can please anyone of any taste. Put in simple terms, this is a movie I highly recommend. It has a cast that works so naturally well together and not for one moment does the acting feel artificial or forced. I can not speak highly enough for this film.
When i first watched this movie,which was about 10 years ago,i didnt understand much as i was very young,rewatching this it really hits the spot.Throught the whole movie it has really great performance and great actors,a very great movie overall.
The best films are those which you just watch not knowing anything about it...not hearing any publicity...no mad movie premier parties just a tape in the video player, watching it with my granddad. I had just left school and film was a passion of mine. I loved watching and making them. I always loved the way films immersed you in and didn't let you go until the credits. This is the absolute prime example of that. Great story, acting, characters and a twisting slam-dunk of an ending. All my favourite films have that quality, seven, six sense and the game. Its just a shame that over the past few years there hasn't been any films which i can honestly add to that list. So come on Hollywood give us proper gutrenching twists not big grizzly apes!!!!
Prison, murder and mystery- as a teenage girl at first glance this film didn't sound like my cup of tea, however Frank Barabont created a film that both me and my family love! The acting is incredible, the qoutes are powerfull and the storyline is so cleverly written that the ending (and I can't put this any better) had me shock. It is probably the best film i have ever and will ever see.

Its old movie but i recently watch this movie , i love the movie . actors and their acting were great . plot of the movig was amazing.
I was expecting something else entirely to a better movie. Sorry not impressed me so even give birth. The only thing I liked was how they interpreted actors.
Captivating, Uplififting and Important are three adjectives most appropriate for this picture. Captivating as this film did literally hold me captive under Morgan Freeman's spellbinding narration in addition to his sublime acting from Freeman, Tim Robbins and the supporting cast. Uplifting as this film truly made hope spring eternal and has done for film-lovers across the globe. Finally this picture is important as there are many people in this world who have given up hope, are denigrated and dejected and may even feel that there life has no purpose but this film has renewed life to many people. It tells the story of Andy Dufresne(Robbins) who is convicted of murdering his wife and sent to Shawshank Prison for life and forms an unlikely friendship and bond with Red(Freeman) and his gang, who initially reject him, that's all I'll prefer to tell you of the film to maximise it's impact.
Amazing Story, amazing acting, and amazing emotional movie.

One of the things you prefer not to talk about , fearing that the words would mess its greatness .
The most confounding film ever made. Much of it is generic prison fare which we've all seen dozens of times before but is able to rise above most other films due to some genuinely inspired scenes powerful enough to melt the hardest of hearts.

One of the best or I should say, Best of best movie.
This movie is an excellent viewing. It reminded me of playing chess.
My favorite movie alll time great actor and history !
This movie is just the one of the best movies I've ever watched. It is really really good. Everything's good in it. Some sceneces made me very sad because it made me live the movie like it was my life, like it was me.
BEST FILM EVER i have seen 1007 films and 705 tv-series this film is best and after that is not godfather but Fightclub and American History X

The movie is pure class and sends a great massage. No matter what happens in your life, you shouldn't lose hope.
I can confidently say, it's the best movie that I have ever seen. The plot is great , you like to follow the olot. Actors are perfect. It has a very nice story with a great ending. Highly recommend it.
I did not knew this movie so far.... i saw him yesterday and i am suprised about the quality of this movie. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins in one of theire best.
After watching this masterpiece, i shouted... How I missed that!!!
When i saw this... my mind was full of hope i realy love this movie the actors are so good
It was a beautiful film. I can even say the best movie I've ever seen in my life
It was a masterpiece movie evergreen movie ever just love it
This was very will done. very intense film and will deserved for its awards
Almost like watching real life, it's long movie and very detail
One of the best film. I love the background score.

Everybody was best.
Niccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccce
3 minutes, minutessong is just 3 minutes song minutesminutes
What can i say...all these reviews speak for themselves...
Great movie, awesome cast, & amazing story plot! I love this movie, I've watched it roughly 13 times so far!

Every movie lover should watch this movie. It's a masterpiece.
Truly amazing movie. Great story, great acting. The whole package.
No movie can come and match the masterclass of acting, story telling, background score, everything this movie has to offer. Perfect in every sense of imagination.

It was Great Experience watching this movie.

My friend Suggested me this movie to watch he is also into film making then i checked IMBD Rating and Started watching .

I don't know how to express my love. What incredible movie I've seen ever. Hope is a wonderful thing, maybe best thing for lives. Never give up. Nothing is impossible if hopes is alive.
When crisis threatens Gotham City, Bruce Wayne jumps back into the Batmobile to fight crime. Batman is joined on his quest by an eager orphaned cop (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), a seductive cat burglar (Anne Hathaway), and a violent masked villain (Tom Hardy).
This is rightly rated the number one film of all time. It makes you feel the entire emotional spectrum. Amazing acting, brilliant story, and a satisfying ending. There's also great messages behind the film that shows how the human spirit can ensure even the most devastating situations even you choose to hold onto hope. I highly recommend this film. You won't be disappointed.
It is movie that inspires me always.The best movie i have ever seen.
The film more than twenty years ago still looks impressive.
This film has some of the best movie line that will inspire me through all the time. whenever i fell bore or something this film make me keep going.when i see that man who had a dream , dream that all he had.that dream, that freedom of life, that his wisdom of thought.in all those movie i watched in my life there is some of them that inspire me,that give me strength this movie is one of them. one of the best line that is to say hope is the best thing , probably the best of thing and no good thing ever dies.
Ast and crew have done a full and fantastic job. The continuity and confidence in the story is remarkable. The idea behind the nature of the human behaviour and comprehension of its depth is clearly visible throughout the scenes.
The directing by Frank Darabont was just magnificent. He kept this movie at a great steady pace along with the writing and great cinematography. He portrayed prison life in such a horrifying way, but not in terms of the physical pain but the stress and pain that wares mentally on the inmates, some of which deserve a second chance.

Whatever you do, don't listen to the people who say this movie is overrated because this is one of the most inspiring and greatest movies ever. It has everything you could possibly want.
A masterpiece! A movie you will never forget! The best storyline and the best actors!
Simply the best film I've ever seen. Inspiring, uplifting, well acted, and beautifully filmed. It is a crime that Forrest Gump was even considered for best picture the same year this film was out.

This movie I can see again and again and again...
I like the story and actors the play role great. and great ending.
An all-time favorite. I am a college professor, and have used this film in sociology, science of success, and various legal classes that I teach. The reactions of students are almost always extremely poignant. An inspirational prison movie. Unbelieveable.
This is an excellent movie. I usually get depressed watching prison movies. Even though the pace of the movie was slow, it is so well made that it keeps your interest alive all the time. The narrative style also added to the relaxed pace. I am sure anybody who watched the movie would come out feeling good about life. The message is pretty clear - even though the obstacles in life seem to be daunting and often impossible to overcome, with hope, will-power and dedication, everything is achievable. Tim Robinson and Morgan Freeman were simply great and played their roles to perfection. I also liked the concept of institutionalization - after a while some people would rather want to be in prison than be faced with a whole new world which has changed so much from what they were used to.
I first saw The Shawhank Redemption a year back and I was totally blown away. this film is perfect in EVERY sense, from acting to story to score,to costume to cinematography. in fact i think they should have made a new academy award, best feeling film or something.

This film was clearly ripped off at the 1994 oscars. forrest gump IS a good flick i agree, but if u look at character development,story and acting shawshank comes out on top.

If for some reason u aint seen this film watch it now... it truly IS the greatest.

and remember hope is a good thing maybe the best of things.....and no good thing ever dies....and nor will shawshank.

6.58x10^96 is what i give it out of 10
A great film. Period. Those of you who haven't watched it yet, make sure to do so. Don't listen to those who say it isn't a great movie - obviously most of the rest of the world does think it was an absolute great movie. Watch it and judge for yourselves.
(Note: my English is not really superb!!!) This movie is absolutely one of the most underestimated movies ever. This great all-round performance has never gotten the recommendation it deserves. I was very happy to discover that I'm not the only one who's deeply touched by this movie. A deserved first place I think. And for everyone who hasn't seen it yet, and can appreciate real quality: you really have to see this one!!!

This film was great - and that's a poor way to describe it. IT was fantastic!!! You see into the lives of Andy and Red and all the others in Shawshank. Not only do you gain insight as to how the prisoners live, but also how they work and live with one another, and how badly they are treated at times, by both fellow prisoners and by the guards. This movie also shows how that in some cases instead of preparing a prisoner for life back on the streets, prison will make them prepared for life only on the inside. The example of this is the elderly librarian prisoner. He has been in prison for many many years, and finally he is let out. This movie is a must see for anyone who likes a good prison movie or just one that seems to be real life.
Shawshank Redemption is - no doubt- one of the best films I've ever watched. Not only the quality of the performance of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins but also the most amazing and interesting screenplay makes film worth watching. The film surpasses Papillon(Butterfly) - one of the best jail-escape film ever shot - in many aspects. Dustin Hoffman and Steve Mcqueen are both fine actors with a couple of Oscar Nominations but Morgan freeman is surely the real suit for the role. Tim Robbins amazes the audience with his cold-blooded behaviours from the very beginning till the end of the film. If you haven't watched the film yet, it's the one you should borrow at first chance.
The best movie ever. Morgan Freeman should have won the Oscar and Tim Robbins should have been nominated. The greatest sin the Academy of Motion Pictures ever did was not give this movie at least one oscar win. 0 of 7 is pathetic! the film should have won every award it was nominated for
Favorite movie of all time. Would highly recommend for anyone to watch
This is one of the best movies around. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are great in this movie. I'm fifteen, and the only part of this movie I didn't appreciate is the part about the homosexual rapist gang. That part I can do without, but the rest of the movie is flawless. Rent it, buy it, steal it, borrow it, do whatever it takes to see this movie.
story was excellent. i like it when i can relate to a man who is in prison--even though i haven't been to one. my guess is the author's connected me through human emotions and the basic human condition to his characters. acting left nothing to be desired.

i particularly appreciated symbology of the film: cigarettes were money, perverted sex was the norm, corruption from the top down, where's my life going? it doesn't sound like a prison film necessarily.
Why I loved (and still love) this film? There are three main reasons? First the writing is exceptionnal, I haven't noticed a flaw in the scenario (every scene seems logical when you see the film again). Then the actors gives the best of themselves (Morgan Freeman delivers maybe his most poignant performance), but what is remarkable in this movie, is the quality of supporting actors (without them the film wouldn't have worked so perfectly) And finally like I underline above the film shows its full potential only when you've seen it (a least) twice, then you realise the complexity of the story, in fact they could have made two films from this one: One about Red (the old con), one about Andy ("the fresh fish") and his struggle to endure life in prison.
I've never imagined movie with such great depth, this one moved me!

I think this must be some serious piece of film making in a long time. At some point of the film, I even felt like I'm a part of the movie. (I laughed with Andy and his pals at their lunch when they are talking about a 'new fish'. Wait a minute, I'm a prisoner!?)

So when you're in the midst of hopelessness, this would be your life jacket.

Cheers! (At the rooftop)
The Shawshank Redemption is one of my favorite films of all time because it triumphs in capturing human feelings through it's acting, music, scenery and many moods. Although the story takes place in a bitter prison, we all can relate to the feelings of dispair and the bonding of true friends and the hope that it brings. A masterpiece.
Okay, the first 20 minutes you think this is a regular movie you have seen a hundred times. But then you are wrong. The Shawshank Redemption is a movie you`ll never forget. Morgan Freeman, not to mention Tim Robbins, both make this movie unforgettable!
It's a great thing when you can finally find a movie you can definitively call "your favorite". This is mine. "The Shawshank Redemption", based on Stephen King's short novella entitled "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption", is an excellent adaptation of said literature...I will go out and say it; I've read the story and seen the movie, and although the movie took some parts out (in the story, there were three different wardens over the course of the story, and Red was Irish, not black), it expanded the detail greatly, covering parts the novella never bothered to touch on (such as Andy getting a new set of clothes and a shiny pair of shoes from the Warden ^_^). The characters are all detailed and alive, not once did I find a character unbelievable. And I've never EVER seen an ending so incredible. My eyes were wide, I was chanting "Oh My God" over and over...This movie makes you feel good all over and gives you a new perspective on life and freedom. This movie is nothing short of a masterpiece. The only fault I find is that it came out at the time as Forrest Gump, which had a lot more advertising and thus beat this great movie out in the box office. Had it come out a few months later, it would have been much more successful.
Very rarely does a movie come along that inspires people to hold on to their faintest hopes. 'The Shawshank Redemption' is just such a movie. Have you ever felt like all hope was lost? Tim Robbins plays a wrongfully convicted man who very easily could have let his hopes die, but instead decides to patiently plot his escape to freedom. Excellent performances make this movie an incredible can't miss.
it is great to see that this movie is in the top 5. this is where it belongs. one of the greatest movies of all time. what made it great was they showed how two had struggles of their own in prison. one wanted to get out, and does after 19 years, and the other makes parole as an old man and almost feels he serves no purpose in the outside world and feels that jail is where he belongs. this is one of my most favorite movies and its hard too see how some didn't like it 10/10
The Shawshank Redemption is a masterpiece. It is certainly the finest work of Tim Robbins' career, and Morgan Freeman even surpasses his usual lofty standard of excellence. This is one of those few movies that one can watch many times over and never get tired of it. It is hard to believe that the story is based on a novel by Stephen King. Every aspect of this film is first rate. It's the closest to a perfect film I've seen in the decade of the nineties.
One of the best movies that I have watched till date. The best part of the movie is it's simplicity. The depth of the movie is narrated in a simple way without any superficial open endings and confusions.

This film is purely exceptional in every respect, and as such is in my opinion the greatest film ever made. The performances from lead characters Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are brilliant in every way, they are both moving and totally believable, tacing the viewer on a rollercoaster of emotions before leaving them in a ending that is unforgettable.

The story of Andy Dufresne's tenure at Shawshank Prison is an inspirational story, and whether you want a great drama, or just an entertaining night's viewing this film is a must see!
Sure, everyone is entitled to his opinion, but in the case of The Shawshank Redemption, the statement "This movie is not a 1 on a 1 to 10 scale" is not an opinion, it's a fact. There are no sensible arguments that can be made for this being a 1.
A great film for those who enjoy prison-escape-type films and also for Stephen King fans. Brilliant performances from Tim Robbins (Jacobs Ladder) and Morgan Freeman (Se7en) emphasize the intricate and clever plot. A must for everyone who's even just slightly fond of watching movies !!
One of the best movies ever. It's a masterpiece.I could watch it a billion times if I had time.
I'm not going to elaborate on what has already been written by others - except to say that the popularity for this film is enormous. I don't think I know ANYONE who didn't like it - it will be recognised as one of THE films of the 90's.
This is much more than a prison film. This is a film about how the human spirit can conquer the most unspeakable abyss and come out clean at the other side. In addition, the story at the heart of it, of Andy (Tim Robbins) and Red (Morgan Freedman)is simply a story of two men's friendship -- something seldom explored in cinema, and rarely as well. Lastly, the theme of hope echoes and throughout the film and reverberates in the viewer's minds like an aria against hard prison walls.
Hope, love, belief, friendship, feeling. Watch this film and re-establish once again what is good about the movies. If you don't particularly like watching films, I urge you to watch this and experience something unlike you have experienced before. This, alongside AMERICAN BEAUTY, is one of the greatest films ever made.
This was an awesome movie. I didn't expect it to be that good, when I first started to watch it. First time I saw it I fell asleep. It must have been because I was tired. Because now it was a wonderful movie. And if anybody from Mt. Vernon, Iowa reads this. It's great to watch it as we were supposed to do it in a class there last year but weren't allowed to because of the rating (R).
I made my Stephen King debut with this particular story when I was in my late teens. Frank Darabont shot a wonderful adaptation which is not very common. Great actor Tim Robbins played the unfortunate Dufresne with such a grace that you never think that the guy was very small in size in the original story. Morgan Freeman is in his prime playing Red, the most useful person in the jail. The suicide of the old prisoner and the last scene where both friends meet are the most emotional ones. And of course we should salute the most beautiful supporting actress ever, Rita Hayworth. Darabont never tries to steal parts from the original story. May be this is why the film is always remembered as a good piece of art.

It is almost impossible to glorify this movie more than it deserves because, simply I believe it is the greatest ever made. The story, characters, music are absolutely mesmerizing. The story of the never say die hope of a wrongfully convicted man sent to prison for life is awe-inspiring and poignant. Watch this with someone you love and cherish. **** stars
This was one of the very first movies that got me choked up. I first saw it on a Pay television network, then decided that I had to have it. To think that such a worthy film in all categories (Acting, Directing, Etc.) did not receive not one Oscar. Yes! I was p***ed off as well. It was much better that Forrest Gump, but hey I don't decide what wins and what doesn't. This is a definite movie for everyone!
Probably the best movie i ever seen, Freeman is one of the best actor in this world for me ,
This is one of the best films I have ever seen in my life the acting and story are superb. If you have not seen this movie go see it RIGHT NOW! This movie has wone 7 Oscars I think and it deserves ever one of them. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are a great team together
...that if you've never seen this movie, that you'll take the time to watch.

Even if it's from the beginning, the middle or the last 20 minutes. I watch this movie when it's on TV. Morgan Freeman is one of the finest actors in America, and his portrayal of Red's journey of friendship and to freedom is touching. His words, "get busy living or get busy dying," never fail to hit home. It's just a good story that Frank Darabont turned into an excellent movie. The performances are all good - Freeman deserved an Oscar. Absolutely one of the best movies ever.
I saw Shawshank quite a few years ago now. However, upon visiting the IMDB Top 250 list and finding it two from the top, I was not surprised. Despite the fact that I saw the movie is 1996 or 1997, I can still remember some of the poignant momments in the film and how the entire film made me feel (heartfelt and happy!).

Overall, I think Shawshank was an absoloutely amazing film. It showcases great performances from both Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, and also demonstrates the quality of writing that people should expect from somebody like Steven King.
this is the greatest movie i have ever seen. by reading the plot you may think of it as just another prison movie. it's more of a friends movie. the greatest portrayal of how wonderful a friend is i have ever seen. i love this movie and have seen it a million times and will see it another million times.
The Price of Bondage is one of the most beautiful films ever made about hope. Even the hope and dignity of Andy Dufresne is enough. If it is the phrase to live fast or die fast; I can say that it really sums up the worldly life. Finally, I leave by leaving one of the most beautiful words in this magnificent masterpiece movie..
This simply is the best movie I've ever seen. With 2 of the greatest actors (Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman) and such a great ending, it will be difficult to beat (in my case). This movie will be the standard for 'jail-movies' for a very long time!
In my book this is the best movie ever made, or at least my favorite. I know that may be going out on a limb, but it is that spectacular. It makes me smile every time in the end, it actually brings me near tears which very few movies have ever done.
With all due respect to the people that complain of it's too stark good vs. evil characters, simplicity and so on... you are missing the point. Having been raised on a steady diet of Hollywood crap, this was first, and only, movie that has been truly inspirational and moved me to tears. This is NOT standard Hollywood material. It has been pointed out that, in general, optimism is equated with ignorance. I was of that opinion as well, but this was truly a LIFE-CHANGING movie for me. This wasn't a movie so much as it was a wake-up call. I've seen all the classics. But nothing I've encountered has conveyed such a message of positivity and hope as this movie, without being contrived or obvious. To all those who pour negative reviews on "Shawshank", stop being a critic, and start being human. To everyone else, I think we're all better people for having seen it.
I have no clever thoughts or ideas about this movie. I am not going to discuss the plot, acting, or directing. It is just the best movie I have ever seen. Period. End of story. See ya. .
i first saw this movie on tv many years ago. i loved it from the start. ever since then i have seen clips and quotes from it all over my daily life. watching it again, i realize how truly wonderful it is. not only is the acting some of the best i have ever seen, the script is very well written and the message it gives stays with you. this movie is the best i have ever seen.
Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest flicks I have ever seen. Morgan freeman and Tim Robbins put on an award-winning performance. I think this film would have received more Academy Awards if the subject matter had not been so dark and it had not been facing Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction. I watch this film time and time again and still have the same anxiety of the first time. I have ruined three video tapes of the Shawshank Redemption by excessive viewing. Each purchase of a new tape is worth it!
This film's high ranking on IMDB is both a testimony to its greatness and a spotlight on how embarrassingly out of touch the Oscar Academy is.

Congratulations to all of those involved in making one of the truly greatest films of all time.
This movie is absolutely perfect. If you have not yet seen it, you must get up from the computer and rush to the video store NOW. It is a wonderfully crafted tale of hope and the human spirit. I love this movie, and consider it the #1 movie of all time. I feel sorry for you if you have not yet seen it.
I have seen many movies in my day and none top The Shawshank Redemption. Tim Robins and Morgan Freeman are spectacular. The story is told from a narration given by Freeman who plays the character "Red", a prisoner who befriends Tim Robins character Andy Dufrain. It is a tremendous story of human triumph. As the movie rises to an incredible climax you will find yourself pumping your fist in the air in delight. This is a movie I never get tired of watching again and again and each time I feel delighted. A true masterpiece!
The Shawshank Redemption is a great movie that has kept my attention from the first to the one hundredth time that I have watched it. This was the first movie I had ever seen Tim Robbins in and I have like him ever since. Not too often can I watch a movie over and over again, but this one does it for me. It is a very powerful movie with many touching parts. Great movie overall...if you have never seen it before, I highly recommend it.

There's not much left to say about this film. Saw it last night for about the fifth time and I am still as impressed as I was seeing it the first time in cinema. Intelligent, moving, funny, and sad, this movie is just perfect. Freeman and Robbins are brilliant, so are the supporting characters. Too bad that there are not many more films like this one. A must see for everyone!
Words cannot describe this movie. I feel this is the best escape/prison movie ever made. The analogy to the human situation is uncanny and it is this fact that makes this movie great and not just very good. Now I know what it means to be institutionalized. ESCAPE WHILE YOU CAN !!!
Great movie, I don't know how I missed it. Nothing was out of place, whoever casted the movie did an excellent job.It instantly became one of my top 5's. I will watch it again(I don't usually watch twice, at least right away). I'm glad I bought the DVD -can't say that about all movies.
The movie was filled with inspiration and hope. Great script and acting by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freemen. I can never get tired of watching this amazing film. An amazing well written screen play and camera shots too. I recommend everybody to see this film!
This movie has everything - hope and dreams, twists and humor, horror and happiness, success and failure. It is so many stories to so many people. I have seen all but the first 10 minutes 100 times, since every time I am surfing the cable channels and see it I stop and watch it, usually until the end. A fantastic story.
One of the best movies in the world. Still in 2019 an very impressive movie.

This is a very well made movie. I like it. Not much to say about it.
this movie was awesome you guys should check it out. i seen this movie so many times. i believe you guys will love it. i really think you guys should watch it. its very interesting so guys if you believe me check it out.. its worth the time watching.. its very popular and i think you will like it too. hop you guys check it out its great an that's a promise so guys please check it out its an really good movie and while you are reading this check out a even better movie the intruder its also a fantastic movie everyone should watch..please guys check it out its great just like this movie its very great i promise its a time killer
I never seen the Movie like This Before.. So, Its Really Cool Movie. Thank you all..
I saw the Shawshank Redemption with my parents when it first came out in 1994. I remember being sucked into a story that I could not stop watching. I do not want to give any spoilers, so being as vague as possible... as the story unfolds you start to wonder how the story could possibly end for Andy, and then when the crucial scene comes... wow. This movie has quite probably the best ending in movie history. An ending that has been built all the way throughout the entire movie without you even noticing. I have always thought this was the best movie ever made. When I discovered the IMDb website I was very excited to see that many people must agree with me. If you haven't already noticed, it has been given a 9.2 rating which is the #1 highest movie rating of all time.
This film is encreible the best film in te word. I like this film
I hope I can make it get across the border I hope I can see my friend and shake his hand I hope the Pacific is as blue as it has been in my dream. I hope.....!
The cast is superb. A real chemistry seems to bond Robbins, Freeman, and their inner circle. Will Sadler, the stone-faced bad guy in Die Hard 2, steals several scenes as the country-loving Heywood, and Vancouver native Gil Bellows shines as Tommy, the cocky high-school drop-out whose fate is pretty much sealed once we're told he has a wife and baby son waiting for him outside the prison walls. Brown, with his hair trimmed so neatly he's this close to being a dead ringer for Al Gore, displays an obsessive brutality that his Highlander role never hinted at. Freeman delivers a subtle but potent performance, letting just the teeniest dabs of despair leak through the cracks of his easy- going facade. Robbins brings the perfect mixture of fresh-faced bewilderment and canny deceit to his role as Dufresne, handling the dramatic and comic elements with equal ease. Watching these actors work together is a real treat, and they more than make up for the script's deficiencies.
This movie is one of my all time favorites. Undoubtedly, one of the most brilliant movies I have ever seen.


The most overrated movie of the century. Shawshank is the perfect example of a film that can fool you into thinking it's great. It's mawkish, fantastical, sappy and manipulative. It's merely good and it's laughably that people actually place it next to masterpieces such as Rashomon, Citizen Kane, Notorious, Apocalypse Now, 2001 and Raging Bull
The most overrated movie of the century. Shawshank is the perfect example of a film that can fool you into thinking it's great. It's mawkish, fantastical, sappy and manipulative. It's merely good and it's laughably that people actually place it next to masterpieces such as Rashomon, Citizen Kane, Notorious, Apocalypse Now, 2001 and Raging Bull
I have watched this movie more than 10 times and still I'm speechless. This movie gives me strength to live in hard times. After watching this movie first time I always speak to myself that don't give up HOPE. But it's very much hard to find friend like Red or maybe prototype like him in real world. This movie gives me strength to move on and never forget those people who left you in in your bad time, so when the RIGHT time comes you can smack them hard. Always love to watch this movie whenever I get time.
Its was okay i suppose! not really something im personally into

A fine piece of drama with some really good acting!
Back in high school, I had an English class where we read the short story by Stephen King and then watched the movie. The short story is wonderfully to read by itself. However, the movie manages to both perfectly capture the whole feel and atmosphere of the original story, and improve upon it. It is rare for a movie to be better than the book, yet everyone agreed it was so. In the movie, many of the characters are more developed, and the warden is made much more crooked. Much of the narration is directly from the short story, but the parts that are not blend perfectly. It is a long movie, with little action and no special effects, yet it is always mesmerizing and beautiful, a movie about hope, with an incredible surprise ending. I still feel cheated because I read the story first and knew the ending before I ever saw the movie.

Freeman brings the story to life in this cinematic classic!
I can't believe I haven't watched it before it's my regret but also I'm happy to seen this movie when I am grown up

It was one of the best movies I've seen in my life.
The year 1994 was full of great movies. like this movie but i thing forrest gump was better the 1995 oscar winner I recommend to watch that
This movie deserves to be spotted n1 The acting it has the actors the drama the story every minute is enjoyable in this movie i like it but not my favourite.
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.
An amazing story with a great narrator throughout in Morgan Freeman. There's tragedy and irony and wraps up in a very satisfying and pleasing way !

I watched this movie a long time ago and I only can say it is a masterpiece!
Awesome movie.it was one of the best movie I ever seen.

is the best movie ever made i love it This movie made me laugh and it made me cry, This is probably my 2nd or 3rd favorite movie ranked in my top 5 list. The movie is based in a prison, where violence, sexual references and profanity are part of the daily life. The story line is excellent with great performances from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman especially. I have watched this movie over 20 times and still enjoy it every time I see it just as much as the first time.
This is the best film ever that has done. So if u havent watch this u should. I dont need to write more then that becouse whatever you do, don't listen to the people who say this movie is overrated becouse this is one off the most inspiring and greatest movies ever. It has everthing you could possibly want
The movie Shawshank redemption is the one of the favourite films I ever watched. The slow base movie and climax attracted me to this movie this movie gives us a feel good impression. I suggest this movie to people those who ready to watch slow base and feel good movies
One of the best movies l've ever seen.

Highly recommended !
There were also not enough hats for my liking. tut tut tut.
Una serie molto carina, l'ho consigliata a molti miei amici! Arrivederci!
Really good series regsetrtheegwger heheths teht dj rtj rt jred
The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense, victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.

This is one movie I never tire of watching. 27 times and going strong!!!
Fantastic movie. i enjoyed the movie, i would love to see more of this
This movie was good it illustrated how complex humans are to have to be forced to write fake reviews in order to be able to watch a show that they cannot find anywhere else.
Really good movie, you should definetley watch it. has agreat plot. incredible graphich and a well writtem script
There is a movie that you should watch throughout your life
Writing, acting, location, sentiment and everything else... great movie. Watch it once and then 5 more times, you will without question. PhillyG @talktalkphillyg
It doesn't get much better than this. Perfect performances throughout, wonderful direction... just amazed it didn't do well when first released. Time put it in its rightful place though... top of the tree!
Ooh yeah, i found it after 18 years later the greatest movie ever
I watched that when I was a kid , I did not remmeber the name tho till Im 19

I just watch it so many times very nice.I can watch it to death
Deserved first place,very nice movie i just watching it so many times :)
One of the best film I have ever seen. The plot was decent and narration drives you into it's world but finally delivers an unexpected thrill to viewers

One of the all time classics. Not to be missed or overlooked. Trust me! The music is particularly powerful.
This is a movie that stands the test of time and still resonates with viewers. Call this the Stand by Me of prison stories. Stephen King, who penned Stand by Me, also wrote the short story on which The Shawshank Redemption is based. Here we have all the things that made Stand by Me such a satisfying experience: lovable characters, writer flourishes, one- dimensional evil antagonists, enduring friendships, poetic justice, and a happy ending. This one is far darker and far more violent than Stand by Me and so ought to be reserved only for older teens. The story is slow to develop, and younger kids and children sensitive to the suffering of others may find this world a difficult one to sit with for the film's duration.
Very good movie love it . gives a good understanding of life and very well directed
Tens of thousands of IMDB users couldn't be wrong, this movie REALLY IS THE BEST. I am an avid movie watcher, and I LOVE this movie. I rate it as a 20 out of a possible 10.

The scene on the beach at the end is the best, it makes me cry every time!

Make sure you own it!
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the enthralling movie that drives your attention right from the start to the end. Movie like these creates a benchmark in the box office and also leaving a mark in every hearts of the cinema lovers.
One of the most well rounded story telling and well executed.
:) this was a really good movie it doesn't fit to usually what my movie types would usually be, but this movie was really good to be honest. I would love to se more movies like this.
Goood movie, i like it a loot. you should wach it as soon as you get a chance
The best storyline you could ever hope for. The scene when he gets out and find out that his former fellow suicided after being released and craved his name on the wooden bar in the ceiling is always make me cry.
It is so good , i love , we should make more movies like that
I saw this movie for first time in 2016 with no pation only for interesting and see first time morgan freeman in his performance as always great and with temper of sound and dialouge was great the end was not bad and i think will get 8 after all
We already know that this movie is amazing. What can we say more. The people who hasnt watched it yet. Hurry up and watch.
That's amazing movie! Love it. Interesting thing is "based on novel" cause in real book Morgan Freeman is Native American ))
Awesome movie very intense You can now track the status of your Review submission and if it has not been approved, we'll tell you the reason why.

If you are using the mobile apps, mobile website or desktop website you can access this feature via the 'Track your contribution' button, which has been added to the submission email receipt. Additionally, if you are using the desktop website, you can also use the
My favirote film such a great cast love the story and morgan freeman naration is the best

The Shawshank Redemption is by FAR my favorite movie. It is the touchstone or benchmark I judge all other movies by. It has everything I love about movies and nothing that I usually hate. This is the only movie I think I can give a rating of 10.
Great script, great actors, great scenes. Simply said, it is a masterpiece.


It's great Movie that i have ever seen when i was child
There is not a single moment in this movie that makes it boring. Tears in my eyes. What a great ending. Don't know what more to say.
For me this is one of my best movie of all time what is interesting about this movie is how the events are more and more intense and exciting to reach an end that is blowing and satisfying. this movie has a well written story and it is full of lessons that can change how you see life it also has many quotes that will stick in your brain and make you think about them very long and sometimes compare your view to life to those of the characters in the movie. the acting is of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins is just amazing.

Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.
Will forever be known for an amazing piece of work.

I dont't know anyone who doesn't like this movie. It's referenced in Drawn Together.
I don't know anyone who does not like this movie. It is referenced in Drawn Together
Really i have many words for this impressive story,there are many movies i used to collect as my personal archive, but this movie is an amazing collection in my digital wallet beasuse i really loved the casting of this movie more than any of recent movies.
Best best best movie ever I have watched, looking forward to watch it again soon
The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made, but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.
Shawshank redemption we can't forget this movie,,, this is extra God given life if u watch it
Best movie ever i seen in my life,,,,,,, One must watch this movie in life
This movie is great. It combines a heart touching story with great actors. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are spectacular along with a great supporting crew. The movie also depicted the book in a very accurate way. I highly recommend this movie.
We may meet something which is not fair in our daily life. We will be angry or sad with these things. After seeing this movie, I can face more things peacefully. And I learned we need to insist on the thing we want to do. I like this film. I see this movie many times.
Except for the top 10 movies I liked Psychologically the best movie is really great.
This film is so interesting and I say you YOU NEED WATCH THIS! ^-^
This film is so interesting and I say you YOU NEED WATCH THIS ^-^
This movie helped me find my own Redemption. Practically changed my life for good, making me mature enough to understand where life stands, and the art of film making.
Story - 100/100 Screenplay - 100/100 Acting - 100/100 Background score - 100/100

What all you need to watch this masterpiece.

Before this movie pulp fiction was my no 1 film and I never imagined that I am going to change my mind for it , but after I saw this my mind changed and I want to say that this is the best work I have ever seen.

A must watch for everyone this film will teach you a good lesson about life.

I have watched this movie countless times and I can't just get enough of it. I highly recommend the movie. If you have watched Prison Break, make sure to watch Shawshank Redemption.
A unique story. Must Watch I really loved the movieðŸ’¯
I am in line with the ten-star reviews that I'm seeing and the only reason I am not giving this parable for hope a ten myself is because I don't as a rule.


Great movie I watch over and over Great movie I watch over and over Great movie I watch over and over Great movie I watch over and over
A must watch, great all time classic seen this a thousand times over and still every time I watch it moments take me by surprise and still make you feel as emotional as the first time you watched it!
Why do I want to write the comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.
The shawshank redemption is my favorite movie for many reasons, from the great acting to the great plot progression.
Basically as the title says, this movie is my favorite of all time.
Hello, my name is Ed and I would like to say that at first this movie looked kind of stupid when I was at Block Buster but I remembered that at IMDB it got a 9.0 rating and is the 2nd best movie of all time so I rented it. When I got home I watched it and I was amazed by it. This movie is incredible. The movie is not really about prison but about people and the hardships they face and endure. While I was watching it there were several parts of the movie where you think it is over but there is realy more to see which was great because you don't want this movie to end. The story unfolds and more stuff is going on in the movie then you think. My advice for anyone who wants to see the greatest movie ever is to go out and either rent this movie or buy it. It is worth it. You wont get sick of this masterpiece.
Not exactly a movie you would think to have Stephen King in the credits, which gives the film a sense of irony. When watching the film, one experiences many emotions, and though not enough to make most people cry, enough to leave you reeling. Our hero Andy (Tim Robbins)quite frankly goes through a lot, but is steered toward the right direction because of his undying hope of getting out. Andy also leads fellow inmate Red (Morgan Freeman) "to the light", and teaches us all how important hope is to have within us. I guess another good point is just how many films can you name that have happy endings, and aren't in any way at least slightly corny?
If this movie isn't a masterpiece, then nothing is. The story and the actors feel very real and they just charm you from the very beginning. You can feel all the emotions that appear in the movie, when something is unfair you just want to break an expensive object and when something good happens you sit there, smiling like a little sun. Tim Robbins is excellent for the part of Andy Dufresne and Morgan Freeman couldn't have been a better choice for the speaker and the role itself.

Even though the movie is full of surprises it allows you to figure out a few things yourself every now and then. But in the long run it consists of many unbelievable twists and turns and there's just not one boring second. I'm not surprised about the rating either, this movie just deserves to be as high up on all lists as a movie possibly can be. If you haven't seen it, you know what I want you to do next.
Probably my favourite movie of all time with great messages. Definitely a movie everyone should see in their lifetimes.
Definitely win your heart and worth watching and story acting cast editing all blow your mind away

This movie is so cool i never get bored watching it thanks
This movie is so cool i never get bored watching it thanks
I sure i love in film and i this movie is so cool i never get bored watching it thanks I collected some useful pins for you

I collected some useful pins for you

I collected some useful pins for you

I collected some useful pins for you
This movie is so cool i never get bored watching it thanks
Something to watch again with my son soon! It gave a lot of lessons and it is just real for me
If you have never watched such movies, I would strongly recommend that you follow a very successful quality surely
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and friendship and redemption.

The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having watched them.
This is a really good movie. It will keep you interested.
This is one of The Best movie in The history, or... It is The Best movie in The history! The acting is so good and the story is beautiful, which makes a incredible combination! I am a 12 year old kid, i watched a lot of movies Which were very good, but this one is The Best! Why? Because it has a great message.... This movie made me Free from The prison inside me!.... There are some People with some bad rewiews.... They are not even Humans, they are monsters disguised as Humans :)))... GO ahead and watch this movie, you have nothing to lose, you Will get inspired, happy, and that great message from it and realize what the world really is ! But Also a little sad... Because of that poor old man! :( Once you watch it, you'll know Who!....
I like the movie and its ok, it isnt that much my taste but it was fun watching it
If you want to learn something in the way of life, you can see the movie. If you have patience in life, many things can be done.

This movie is not your ordinary Hollywood flick. It has a great and deep message. This movie has a foundation and just kept on being built on from their and that foundation is hope.
Could not sleep at night after watching this film. One of the BEST DAMN films EVER made. Simply loved it. Rented it without much expectation, but boy what a surprise. Never have I been so moved by a film. Also see American Beauty, Green Mile. A MUST SEE! 10/10
The image of time and pressure are just beautiful. Pressure represents what comes at us, and what makes us. And time has the power of realizing whatever dream or hope we have. And last but not least time is the most important testimony of friendship.


It is one of my favorite, the greatest in the world. It shows a man's braveness and right. It reminds us the glory of being a human nature. people are sensitive animal who are always controlled by emotion. Facing the terrible environment, its our nature to fight with it. But when it comes to some extent, we will be despair. But Andy always keep his mind wide open and finally reach his goal.
Film mÃ¼kemmel, kesinlikle izlenmeli.Film mÃ¼kemmel, kesinlikle izlenmeli.Film mÃ¼kemmel, kesinlikle izlenmeli.
I believe that it is an excellent film.The film begins with the conviction of Andy Defresne (Tim Robbins) a banker who in 1946; was ordered to serve two life sentences, back to back, at the Shawshank prison in the State of Maine, for the murder of his wife and her lover. The film portrays how Andy Defresne, uses his banking knowledge to gain "freedom" from predatory inmates and the officers in charge of the prison. In the passage of time, he becomes hopeful and influential within the prison. This made him gain the respect of his co-inmates, especially longtime convict "Red" (Morgan Freeman) who became his closest ally. Andy eventually, achieves freedom by escaping.
I watch it no less than 5 times and I will definitely watch it again.
In the lead roles, both Robbins and Freeman are outstanding, layering their performances with snippets of individuality: Their small, daily sustenances and minor triumphs are wonderfully inspiring.
Its amazing movie but its still one of most overrated movies ever....not much to say beshide that
I enjoyed this movie a lot. I do not wish to spoil it so I will leave you with that much!
Great movie makes you feel like you're in the prison with them fighting alongside the convicts in their struggle to survive. The characters are varied and very believable, makes you want to root for some and hate others. The plot is engaging and suspenseful and keeps you guessing to the end what the different characters outcomes will be.
It's a beautiful movie. I was biased before watching it, but I think everyone should watch it. It's a great movie with its script, acting, cast and cinematography.
Very nice movie. I was biased before watching but I think everyone should watch it. It's a great movie with screenplay, acting, cast and cinematography.
Amazing movie definitely one too see and too see how is was in those prisons.

There is not a movie better than this. This movie is simply the best movie ever made and it can not be argued.
This is a fantastic film and deserved the countless awards that it was given during the 1990's! The film is visually astounding with a fantastic cast of legendary actors. Films that have twists are always impressive and Frank Darabont does this film justice by creating an original and at times, very moving screenplay. I would suggest that anyone watches this film as it takes its audience on a roller-coaster of emotions from pity towards Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) at the start of this movie when he is convicted of murdering his wife, to the moving performance by James Whitmore as Brooks Hatlen, the lonely and 'institutionalised' old prisoner.

The ending made me cry and made me want to go and visit the 'big hayfield up near Buxton'!! I must have watched this film hundreds of times and I still get nervous when Warden Samuel Norton (Bob Gunton) goes into Andy Dufresne's cell and realises something astounding about the prisoner...
This is how movies should be made. My best movie of all time. This movie will teach you never to give, never loose hope, be persistent & always do the right thing what so ever.
It's a great movie. It is realistic and instructive. The character's acting is impressive and the people around him also make a lot of impressions. It is a movie to look again. Anyone around is strongly recommended. It is a very good movie. It's a great movie. It is realistic and instructive. The character's acting is impressive and the people around him also make a lot of impressions. It is a movie to look again. Anyone around is strongly recommended. It is a very good movie.
An enormous production that deserves to be at the top of the list
I watched this movie maybe 5 times, but I can say it is the only movie I will watch without getting bored. You can understand that it is inevitable to succeed when you continue the things that are called really impossible without getting tired and bored even after years.
This movie is absolutely brilliant. A must-watch for all
One of the best movie ever made! This can change ones life style !
Quite deserving of such acclaim, the acting is superb, the storyline captivating, and the cinematography quite beautiful.

It is no wonder that the film has such a high rating, it is quite literally breathtaking. What can I say that hasn't said before? Not much, it's the story, the acting, the premise, but most of all, this movie is about how it makes you feel. Sometimes you watch a film, and can't remember it days later, this film loves with you, once you've seen it, you don't forget.
When I was searching for a thriller and suspense.i got about shwashank redemption.. when I was this movie at first time.i was really shocked about story of this movie and suspension of story. that day I was make a big fan of Hollywood's movie.
For all the people who never watch this masterpiece .... YOU SHOULD WATH IIIIT .
It was one of the best movies I've ever watched, and every time I watch it again, gives me hope and life.
The whole movie revovled around the word HOPE. It was amazing to see and learn many life lessons from the movie.

One of the very first film, which opened my eyes to cinematography. Great production.

What can i say. Its just awesome. Grt acting. Grt story. Its just awesome. Till date i didnt watch this sort of film in my life.

A phenomenal film. A rare gem that surpasses entertainment, resonating with meaning and enlightenment. The film, and the Stephen King novella it derives from, are a treasure. Even if you're not a big reader, seek out Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption. It's contained in a collection of 4 novellas - one for each season. After you've seen the film, it should be apparent which season Shawshank is allocated. The book also has enough deviations, including a different ending, to keep you enthralled even if you've seen the film several times.
I find movies where you lose track of time are the best
It's cool but i have a probelm with subtitles and that I don't like
One of the best movies of all time. Don't deprive yourself of the pleasure of watching such a stellar movie. Go now and watch this movie if you have never seen it. Perfect casting, amazing story, emotional performances. Just perfect.
Fewfewfewfewcvwrewewferweywqyafhrirerfuqretjareshearujhejrikrtyikrjhegeffdatahaehgrhrjherjeaaejheajejejejeaejetjejrethtgrhr rthrtjafeu5yjrtawrywruwuaestu4wutuq4tu8a4u4tuuatuta4wut
NICE ONE, EXCELLENT STORY.rEALLY i LIKE IT VERY MUCH.
This is one the best movies I've ever seen. The acting, writing and production was impeccable. I'd watch this movie over and over again.
I would watch it over and over again. This is on e the best movies I've ever seen.

With L.A. Confidential running a close second, this is the best film in a surprisingly good decade for movies. Finally, somebody gets Stephen King right. The film is based on one of his short novellas, and director Frank Darabont absolutely nails it. Of course, he has a lot of help from Morgan Freeman, Tim Robbins, Bob Gunton, Clancy Brown, and Gil Bellows. All give amazing performances. Throw in Darabont's screenplay, Roger Deakins' cinematography, and Thomas Newman's score, and you have a bonafide masterpiece. If you don't dig this movie, please check your pulse.

It's a real shame Hollywood did not know how to market this back in 1994, because word-of-mouth came too late for the film to make money or win the Oscars it deserves. So when you see Shawshank for the first time, you'll wonder how in the hell Forrest Gump won best picture. To this day, I've never left a movie theater feeling better than when I saw The Shawshank Redemption.
It's a movie you must watch, enjoy and learn from how to not lose hope, identity and to be unbreakable
This is simply one of the best films ever made and I know I am not the first to say that and I certainly won't be the last. The standing on the IMDb is a true barometer of that. But let me perhaps add that what I find so fascinating about Shawshank is that Stephen King wrote it.
......I was recommended to watch this God.awful movie
That Red had his back from when they met, climbing out that sewer pipe not me
The whole movie is inspirational,but why redemption?
The whole movie is inspirational,but why redemption


Free is in the sun leisurely to breathe. For us, it's like air, and you don't usually think about what it's like to lose it, but for an elite youth who has lost a loved one and is permanently locked up in prison for no reason, it's a fatal blow.

This movie is a classic and will watch for years to come !! I highly recommend it. All the actors are great and the scenes will keep you on your feet !! I have already watched it 20 times and purchased a copy that will forever live in my video library .......If you love drama this is the movie to watch


Very good it is one the best movie i have ever seen in my life
Good movie! it's good to watch on a rainy day at a saturday night. recommended
This is a movie that stands the test of time and still resonates with viewers. Call this the Stand by Me of prison stories.

I never Seen Before Like This Fantastic Movie,This Is my Favorited Movie which i saw , and i recommend to my Friends to watch this awesome movie what a direction and the roles are played very natural in this movie the acting is awesome.I appreciate the stars who played such an awesome roles.
Even if you loved marvel or Dc movies Shawshank will top my listing for sure.
Nice (only doing it for my profile checkout) Should watch though
I remember when i was i kid, my granda watch this film and i watch too. But i watched again with my family(mom,dad,youngers) month ago. It still surprisingly and heartbreaking , shocking. And very heart melt ending is safe that film ahh goddamn it ,maybe i'll watch it again with my own family again
I think this is one of the best films ever made, Morgan freeman is ameizing, is hard to understand life without the final outcome

Over and over and over, it's one of the movies you never get tired of. Everytime you watch, you will see or hear something different.

The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont, based on the 1982 Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. It tells the story of banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who is sentenced to life in Shawshank State Penitentiary for the murders of his wife and her lover, despite his claims of innocence. Over the following two decades, he befriends a fellow prisoner, contraband smuggler Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), and becomes instrumental in a money-laundering operation led by the prison warden Samuel Norton (Bob Gunton). William Sadler, Clancy Brown, Gil Bellows, and James Whitmore appear in supporting roles.
An integrated movie in all respects in my opinion is the best movie I have seen so far and it is difficult to abandon this opinion unless there is a shock coming
I am in love with this movie , this one has all the action , thriller and all thing which I think it must have
Everyone told me to watch this movie I am just wondering how good this is.
Immensely enjoyed the movie! The acting was very good. It, also, helped me to view people in prison more compassionately. I loved Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins in this. Morgan Freeman is an outstanding actor.
This Video is Veryyyyyyyyyyyyyyy Gooooooooooooood . Thank you for taking the trouble to help me.I do appreciate it.
King is one of the best writers in the world. Books like IT and the Castle Rock series are some of the greatest stories ever told. But his best adaptations are always done by the best directors. The Shining was brilliantly interpreted by Kubrick and of course the aforementioned Misery and Stand By Me are both by Rob Reiner. Now Frank Darabont comes onto the scene and makes arguably the best King film ever. He seems to understand what King wants to say and he conveys that beautifully.
Good this is actually a lovely movie could watch it 1000times again
Shawshank Redemption has superb performances, a good script and interesting story all leading to a deep emotional climax! One of the best film.
The Shawshank Redemption(1994) the best movie of all time ever

A very good movie. The story line is very nice. The movie teaches about life lessons in every dark times we face..
I don't have many words for this film but trust me when I say that this will be in your top 3 movies ever without a doubt.

GO WATCH THIS MOVIE NOW!!!
This film is very good film and very nice and This film is very good film and very nice and This film is very good film and very nice and

It's a must watch movie . The storyline is amazing . I can say that you will not regret watching this .
Quite simply the best film it has been my pleasure to have watched. When it first came out at the cinema in the mid nineties, it wasn't tremendously successful, however as a regular cinema goer at the time, I was lucky enough to see this magnificent film. As soon as I left the cinema, I promptly recommended this film to everyone I knew. As soon as the video and then the DVD was released, it was purchased immediately and watched and re-watched several times. Even though I know the entire storyline and all the twists etc, I still watch the film whenever it comes on TV. I still watch the DVD at least a couple of times a year, some would call it sad, however it totally deserves the title of 'My Favourite Film'

It is an all time -classic movie to watch ! The acting , plots and intensity of characters , inspiring in many ways . A beautiful film which is a must watch for all out there ðŸ’™


I have to be honest, this is probably one of the best movies I've ever seen!
The best movie i've ever seen!...Most motivationa.. And inspiring!!

Nice one movie awesome watch it I recomand itAwesome movie a very nice movie guys
the movie is life changer Out of any film that has ever been made, this is my far the best one. It's just so special and moving. Such a deep and touching message about life and the institutionalization aspects of prison life. It really touches the inner hopefulness in all of us, or at least everyone who has seen this movie. If you've never seen it, watch it,

Mind-blowing film with nice motivation for human psychologist.
Seems Interesting I'll watch this when I'm Free. :3 free reviews XD.
This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared it long lost in a dark sea of clichÃ©s and predictability. Darabont shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and production facilities. These artists show their capability to produce art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life and the world around you. The Shawshank Redemption delivers much-needed breath of fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of film. It proves that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and still bless us with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget.
I sure whenever i saw this, i feel the fun and act. The real fun is here without any action. Everyone on this earth has their own freedom.
This movie provides everything what is needed to be inspired to achieve one's goal in life, if it doesn't inspire you or doesn't teach you about the greatest lesson on patience then nothing will...talking about movie It's a all time masterpiece...A must watch for anyone.
I was recommended to see the film by my friend, and it did not disappoint me. Both the content and the plot and the performance of the actors were excellent. It is easy to be moved by actors when watching, which makes people feel the same way. In general, I am very satisfied with this film and I like it very much. I will recommend it to my friends
Nothing to say with this masterpiece ,this movie was so much touching and the soundtrack was PERFECTO thanks to this lovley quality

this film is possibly one of the greatest all time, anyone who watches and thinks it is bad, they need shooting, love this film and can watch it loads of times and not get bored. upsetting at some points but still amazing. Morgan Freeman's character Red loved, him, he saw things on a different side, and a more realistic side, whereas, Andy saw things as a more fantasising which he always believed could come true. There are points in the film which many would say, i have seen this before or we all know wot is going to happen, but in this film, you never know wot to expect, there are many points which are very unexpected. To end this, my word on it is amazing, i loved the film, and if this is not considered one of the best films of all time then i don't know what could be.
This movie is highly underrated and thought of as just another "new guy in prison" type of movie but, the messages of friendship make this movie one in a million. The movie chronicles Andy Dufrasne, a man wrongly convicted of the murder of his wife and her lover. He meets "Red" a man who can get "anything for anybody" which is a common role in prison movies he even says, "there must be one like me in every prison". These unlikely friends help save each other in the end, Andy saves Red's soul, which was calloused from prison life. And Red saved Andy, teaching him all he needed to know about prison life. Although there is some lude remarks and alcohol consumption in the movie, the good definately outweighs the bad in this case.
I have seen TSR about 5 or 6 times now, and every time I watch it, it's getting better! Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are great together and the end of the movie is the best movie ending ever!! A tale of courage and friendship. Go see it!!!

This is just a gem of a movie...Best film i have ever seen
Absolutely terrible movie, the cat in the hat 2003 movie is far superior to this. 1 out of 10, will never watch again. Very bad
He Shawshank Redemption is written and directed by Frank Darabont. It is an adaptation of the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. Starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, the film portrays the story of Andy Dufresne (Robbins), a banker who is sentenced to two life sentences at Shawshank State Prison for apparently murdering his wife and her lover.
The Shawshank Redemption is written and directed by Frank Darabont. It is an adaptation of the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. Starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, the film portrays the story of Andy Dufresne (Robbins), a banker who is sentenced to two life sentences at Shawshank State Prison for apparently murdering his wife and her lover. Andy finds it tough going but finds solace in the friendship he forms with fellow inmate Ellis "Red" Redding (Freeman). While things start to pick up when the warden finds Andy a prison job more befitting his talents as a banker. However, the arrival of another inmate is going to vastly change things for all of them.
Is a best movie sdkjrjdjjjdjjjjjjjjjdseooeowoorelldlldlskkeijij ie
This is a masterpiece. It shows that the patience is the key of success How the character shows the patience is invaluable.
One of the greatest movies ever made. Good action, better cast and the best end of this magnificient movie.
Everyone said that this movie is the best movie. That's why I also watched this movie. But it can't fulfill my expectation. The story was common to me. But this film has some message for us. Happy watching.

One of the reasons why the full title of the Stephen King novella, "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption," was not employed was because there was a perception in Hollywood that the film was actually going to be a biopic of Rita Hayworth. Indeed, Frank Darabont even received solicitations of audition requests from several actresses and supermodels and their agents about playing the lead.
The best movie of all time Everything is perfect, well written ,stunning actors performance and touch my feeling
Idk it wasn't as interesting as it was made to be. Not happy with the results.


The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best classic movie ever directed by Frank Darabont.
My all time favorite movie..I Inspired Morgan freeman
Great directing, great acting, great story line, great movie. Nothing to dislike about this movie, you can watch it from the beginning to the end and enjoy every minute of it.
I like this movie very much. Nice act by everyone. I really like this
Story is exciting and realistic While acting is great. The length is a bit too long but enjoyable till last minute. I very recommend watching before you think its an old movie or the trailer is not exciting
This is the best story unwrapping I'd ever seen. It left me the feeling of justice I felt so fulfilled with the ending. To be honest, the cinematography isn't that extraordinary but the plot and the screenplay left me out of breath so I didn't give it much of a thought. No need of those things with a story like this and less when it's told this beautifully. I think this is one of the biggest must-watch ever.
Sick film mate. sickest film ive ever seen. would not call another one sicker than this
Sick film mate its the sickest film ive ever seen would not call a nother one sicker that this
It is a mind blowing movie. The emotions that run through after the end are simply inexplicable. What performances and what direction. The best movie of all time.
In the face of reality's ruthlessness and injustice, people are powerless to resist. Patience is the best choice, and then rely on your own wisdom to win the final victory.
Excellent Movie!!! I enjoyed it...I strongly recommend it!!!
Honestly this movie is a masterpiece, if you think your life is not working out then you should watch this movie for sure. Not only it is based on hope but shows us how the character improves and develop over time. This movie shows a lot of emotions such as happiness, sadness, inspiration, anger, etc. I really recommend to give it a shot.
Best movie Ive ever seen...and i love it so very much

The thing that amazes me most about this movie is its perfect pacing. Every time there's some serious crap that goes down, there's always a hopeful or amusing anecdote afterward to pick you back up and get you in the hopeful headspace of Andy Dufresne. A veritable masterpiece in writing, cinematography, and commenting on the human spirit.
Most powerful movie of all time. Can't even describe it's greatness and the value it has held for so many years after it's release. The performances are incredible. There is no better movie ever made. This is the greatest ever.
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are going through.

I really enjoyed this movie and watched it several times...it never gets old. The characters are believable and the story line is honest and believable. Give it a watch...it may become one of your favorites too!
There's no wonder this is one of the best movies ever made. I'm writing this review after watching it for more than five times (if not more).

The acting was excellent, the screenplay was excellent and the script was excellent. I can't fault it.

It's a good all-round movie.
The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made, but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.
There is "NOTHING wrong" with rubbing pancakes all over yourself, but it is not productive. The Shawshank Redemption has about ONE idea in it at best and, if that idea is not fully absorbed after one viewing of this blandsterpiece, further views will be of no use. Ironlion is free to spend their life sitting in front of a screen watching this simple story again and again, just as others are free to point out that this activity is the very definition of a waste of a life: unproductive, uncreative (taking rather than giving), and (let's face it) idiotic.
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty -- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off despair. This is a movie that stands the test of time and still resonates with viewers. Call this the Stand by Me of prison stories.
Even I thought Albert Einstein's IQ is a child infront of Andy's IQ...
After watching this movie I got to why this is the top rated movie ever

I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and it gets better with every showing.
Well Well Well, one of the best films made in this century, and of course you get the haters, people who are more interested in the CGI in films like The Transformers, (god bless them with their mental age of 13) .A film with Morgan Freeman in it makes you sit up and take notice, a fine actor, director and narrator. IMHO. Its time to forget the haters on here.Any film with a rating of at least,,,,,6.9 upwards is going to be a cracker of a film
A must watch, truly a masterpiece. The story touches the soul. Watched several times and can still watch this movie 100 more times.
I have never ever seen such a nice web series. Waiting for your new project
When I think about a movie with character and human feelings I think about Shawshank Redemption. This movie digs deep into raw emotions with the incredible Freeman and Robbins. It's a classic that will last forever.
All the elements of this movie is perfect. Every actor has given their best. Loved it.
An impressive movie. Really the story is perfect. You must watch !
It is one of the best movies in the world that many people will join me. Watching very, very impressed. What it might be called the great stories of Stephen King anyway. Acting on cues can say is enormous. There's no posturing. Especially when Andy Dufrense incredible music that review still stands wandering on everyone's lips. Finale as you lose yourself in it is a movie you are getting into. Finals if he so exhilarating you a high-quality music. And finding that deserves really deserve. I watched this film very young age and it has taught me that the magic of cinema in a nice way. This film is one of the reasons I hate the Oscars. Will remain as the best film in more than 10 years, I believe wholeheartedly sites. Definitely one of the best films in the world.

The acting, writing, directing, and scenery is amazing. I watch this show every time it comes on the television. I still believe this is simply a story of friendship that triumphs over evil.
The actors, the script, the scenery make it one of the best movies I have ever seen.
Great movie watch it one of the most beautiful, super awesome movies I've watched, it can be watched as a family, I definitely recommend it, it's beyond perfect, it's beautiful.
This movie is AWESOME although it's super long! I don't care I can watch it over and over again and not know how old it is.
The Best movie i have ever seen. I love this movie so much.
The Shawshank Redemption is the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits I don't really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made, but not the best. Great movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.
Won't say to much about this movie, it's a good one. It has an interesting theme (but not new or reinterpreted), a nice effort in describing the characters and their transformation, yes. Some bits of good soundtrack, yes. and OK climax and overall an entertaining feature-film, yes.

But how in a million years can be this the greatest MOVIE of all time? Please

Please
Mazing i like it amaxzing watch it lol omg hi omg watch it watc it wath what omg mi wai xk
I'd like to start of with saying "the Shawshank Redemption" is a very good movie, but I can not give it a 10/10 review. The only movie thats is and proberbly will ever be perfect is the Godfather and Shawshank doesn't even nearly reach that level.
Amazing actors acting amazingly. Superb writing and told wonderfully. I love this movie.
My favourite film ever! Can watch it every day. Had to watch it twice the first time
I think it's really good overall and I genuinely enjoyed the ending / progression of the piece as a whole.
I'm not going to tip toe around it, this film is crap. Its completely unoriginal, its not artistic, its not demanding (except for being boring).

You will not learn anything about the world through this film.

This film is not a part cinematic history, unlike nearly all other films in the top 250.

It is predictable and emotional crap.

But even if your not into cinema, and you just like popcorn entertainment there are far better movies out there...basically any on the video shelf.
AXDsfdgjhkj,lmgvncbvcZvxbcn gfjnghkcgului fthfykitculouipui9pg fghxfufxujhzrujxr
Best movie. It connect with you emotionally. . . . . . . . . . . .
Can Hollywood, usually creating things for entertainment purposes only, create art? To create something of this nature, a director must approach it in a most meticulous manner, due to the delicacy of the process. Such a daunting task requires an extremely capable artist with an undeniable managerial capacity and an acutely developed awareness of each element of art in their films, the most prominent; music, visuals, script, and acting. These elements, each equally important, must succeed independently, yet still form a harmonious union, because this mixture determines the fate of the artist's opus. Though already well known amongst his colleagues for his notable skills at writing and directing, Frank Darabont emerges with his feature film directorial debut, The Shawshank Redemption. Proving himself already a master of the craft, Darabont managed to create one of the most recognizable independent releases in the history of Hollywood. The Shawshank Redemption defines a genre, defies the odds, compels the emotions, and brings an era of artistically influential films back to Hollywood.
This is the most beautifully put together movie I have ever seen. Amazing performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. The message of of hope and the idea of freedom that Andy Dufresne conveys is truly inspiring. One of parts of the movie is the way they show the passage of time.
You will enjoy every second of this movie ðŸ˜‰ from start to end



This movie is standard for what a basic good entertaining movie should be. Not that much action but it's well put together enough to keep you following the story as it unfolds.
I think The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best movie in the world. This movie story is just amazing. and the movie plot is very interesting. Just Highly recommend it.


This film inspired me in so many levels and has given me hope to never give up.
Best film I have been came across till date what a concept what suspense Not only films subject but it's emotional balance is also way deel
This movie needs to be watched by every person in the world... it's worth 200% the best movie i have ever experienced....
Wow, what a film. Initially got told about this film for so long and brushed it off as 'overrated'

It comes on TV from time to time and thought why not give it a watch, I'm so glad I did.

Would definitely recommend!
This Never Ages.handsdown the best movie I ever seen!
The most overrated movie ever. A classic? Yes. A masterpiece? Maybe. Best movie ever? Hell no.

I can see from the bulk of the reviews on this page that I don't have to write a glowing review of this film...but I want to. Having read most of Steven Kings work I cant tell you how many times I have been let down by films made from his writing. In my opinion however this film surpasses his story so much so that it becomes the best film ever made. Morgan Freeman's narration of the film gives me goose bumps,the story just grabs hold and will not let you go. This film is long but I guarantee when you reach the end you will wish it would just keep going. The DVD is lacking in special features which is a shame because I'm sure I would have watched those countless times as well. All in all I say not only should everyone see this movie (rent it now!!!) but own it as I do.
Such an amazing movie has got to be the best by far its just so great its amazing for anyone to see i swear.
Good movie classy cinema less effects good lookin actors
Awesome movie. Such tempting. It is an adaptation of the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth nd Shawshank Redemption.
Great film to watch! Love the film and the soundtracks!!! Great job!
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the most well written, played and directed movies of all time. Incredibly humane and realistic, it will keep the viewers interest at top throughout the whole movie without making him tired, will travel him in the same journey with the actors and leave him after the end with a sweet taste in his heart and his mind. "Fear can set you prisoner, Hope can set you free" claims the movie and you will really believe it. This is only one of the many massages the movie is sending. The story is so real that is breathtaking. The acting is excellent from all the actors, even in secondary roles. It is a movie that I enjoy to watch at any time, touching me each time. It is really a classic masterpiece!
Story was fantastic.

Acting and the fear of actors were great, had the best storytelling and directing.

There are some movies which you like because they are made on the topics you like, field you are in or hobbies which you enjoy the most. But The Shawshank Redemption is certainly not based on your life story yet it will make you to live and love every single moments of it. Just remember, Hope is a good thing in fact the best of all the things and no good things ever dies :)
It is certainly the best prison movie. It's definitely the best outing for Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. It's certainly the best movie of the 90's.

If you haven't seen it - buy it for your collection today!

A movie with good messeges. I loved this movie a lot.
A very good movie. Worth watching.brilliant movie. One of the most memorable movies that you won't forget about.
This is an masterpiece. A very intense and thrilling movie which aged well.

After I bought it in the DVD-Palace and watched from my couch, I recommended it to many people living in my street.

It was fabulous!
A sense of "otherness" to it - for lack of a better word
The Shawshank Redemption is very thrilling and entertaining and jail based movie. Shawshank is a fictional jail in England and the movie lead manages to take himself out from that jail just by a small hammer and his wisdom.
This movie about time, patience and loyalty of two persons, which is about how two men serving life sentences in prison become friends.

At first I did not believe that this movie is very good but when I saw it I was without words. Morgan freeman and Tim Robbins did a great job by moving the story smoothly. One of the best movies.

I must say that I was I little surprised to see the euphoric comments that other users have bestowed on The Shawshank Redemption. Although I thoroughly enjoyed the film, I would not place it with the cinematic greats. It has an excellent storyline that both surprises and ultimately satisfies, and is well acted. However, there is little flair in its direction and some of its characters are a little cliched. To sum up, the Shawshank Redemption is an enjoyable film with some well thought out twists to the tale, but the 2nd best film of all time? I don't think so.
In short, this movie is the life and hope that anyone needs to rise

What a great movie. Just amazing. The characters are the best.

What's not to love? Action, romance, drama, it has it all!
The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that keeps you on the edge of your seat and is arguably one of the best movies of all time. The way the story flows in a quick and coherent manner definitely contributes to it being interesting and upbeat from the beginning to the end. It is one of those rare movies where you experience no boredom. It is an entire 20 year long journey fit into this movie in such a great way. This movie starts greatly and ends greatly.
Very good movie, it give a message. I like the plot.
One of the greatest movies of all time. The movie encapsulates all the values that give hope, patience and motivates us all to never give up. The characters, their performances is so unique. The musical score is by one of my all time favourite composer Thomas Newman. Timeless Masterpiece! Must have... Must Watch. . Must Share!

The film is satisfying but cloying. Andy is the minister of the healing power of hope. He educates the inmates on the healing power of Mozart. He builds a library. He asks Red why he stopped playing the harmonica. When Red replies that it's no use in prison, Andy looks at him soulfully and replies that "here's where you need it the most." Despite the somewhat unbelievable friendship between a white, upper-class banker and an African-American man in 1949, it's a valuable lesson that may seem inspired to kids who haven't heard this story before.
The hero is going to die and yes he killed his wife and it's a great movie amazing twist at last .
Kskdkjdksmdksjdkmsjkcskckscmjscnmjkcnskjdcnjksdncskjdncdkjsncjsnckjscnkjxnckjsdnckjsnkjcnsjcksnkckskdkjdksmdksjdkmsjkcskckscmjscnmjkcnskjdcnjksdncskjdncdkjsncjsnckjscnkjxnckjsdnckjsnkjcnsjcksnkckskdkjdksmdksjdkmsjkcskckscmjscnmjkcnskjdcnjksdncskjdncdkjsncjsnckjscnkjxnckjsdnckjsnkjcnsjcksnkckskdkjdksmdksjdkmsjkcskckscmjscnmjkcnskjdcnjksdncskjdncdkjsncjsnckjscnkjxnckjsdnckjsnkjcnsjcksnkckskdkjdksmdksjdkmsjkcskckscmjscnmjkcnskjdcnjksdncskjdncdkjsncjsnckjscnkjxnckjsdnckjsnkjcnsjcksnkckskdkjdksmdksjdkmsjkcskckscmjscnmjkcnskjdcnjksdncskjdncdkjsncjsnckjscnkjxnckjsdnckjsnkjcnsjcksnkckskdkjdksmdksjdkmsjkcskckscmjscnmjkcnskjdcnjksdncskjdncdkjsncjsnckjscnkjxnckjsdnckjsnkjcnsjcksnkc.
Amazing movie! I have watched it 10 times and it will always be my number one.


I watched this movie with my friend. We both didn't have any plan for this. But we got to know from IMDB so made plan. Once we started to watch we couldn't even blink our eyes. This became one of my best movie ever. I really recommend to everyone to watch this movie.
For me, "the best ever". Everything is simply amazing. Its relevant and appropriate even after 24 years of its release. You just love it. Go for it. Shawshank is waiting for you :).
I really love this movie, I think this is the best I've ever seen, love the way it makes me think and to value my freedom. it's sad but also reminds me of a saying, if live gives you lemons you do lemonade.
This movie is amazing a pure masterpiece Hollywood movie
The Shawshank Redemption is a popular movie directed and written by the famous director Frank Darabont. The actors in this movie are Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. And the film portrays the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who is sentenced to two life sentences at Shawshank State Prison for killing his wife and her lover. The story is amazing and a must watch for all.
This is an example of extremely fantastic movie, from start it made me sit by the edge of the seat and as the movie proceeds , it was just getting more and more awesome.
One of movie that be my favorite but not the best one

The world has turn against you. You've been backed into a corner. Despite, whether you actually committed your murderous intent or not you've been ostracized from society & thrown into prison. Shawshank Redemption is a movie where characters are faced with accepting the cards they're dealt or fight for a better tomorrow knowing it's unlikely due to their past choices. You will explore the meaning of determination, strength, patience & hope.
I was astonished to see how much damage may be done to a picture by putting in too much talk.
No words , can not explain how that movie affected me . Changed my perspective about cinema.
Rarely do movies come along that change a persons perspective on life, but for The Shawshank Redemption this statement is granted. From start to finish a beautiful adaptation of what movies are supposed to be like, displaying humanities most important elements, hope, joy, retribution and redemption, they all come into play and thats what makes it a cut above the rest. Society changes views on certain aspects of life but somehow hope always stays at the forefront, for change, for a better life. To change ones situation and to free the soul of a prison of emotion. Shawshank doesn't have special effects or big blockbuster openings and endings, but it does have one thing that is more deep and special, it has a message that appeals to the good in everyone, that no ones situation is indefinite and that where there's hope, there's life.
Great film u watch this when I was kid

This is lit!!!
My absolute favorite movie. The plot, the acting, the music and the camera work.

Together make an almost perfect film for me.

A film that gets by without cgi action bombast like many of today's flicks and still deserves to be #1 on Imdb.
Why did I rewatch this movie? I asked myself. Sometimes i want to remember the same felling as i watched this for the first time. Iam not a guy who watches the same movie twice or more but when it comes to Shawshank Redemtion i couldn't stop myself. I am truly moved by this movie's beauty. There aren't many movies like Shawshank Redemtion. Don't lose your hope, as Andy said"Get busy living or get busy dying."
The best movie I've ever seen. "The Shawshank Redemption" is a film made for midnight showings. It's ominous, brutal, pretentious, and often stirring. Even though some sections feel rushed and it falls apart at the end, every part of it is memorable. Set mostly in gloomy fairy-tale woodlands, where representatives of science are terrorized by forces both human and uncanny, this is a low-budget thriller that carries itself with the swagger of a larger production.
The casting of the movie must be realistic. It is an important element of review writing to tell the readers how the content of the film fits into your course. Is the movie distorting the historical facts?
The best movies of all time. It is really a great movie which shows how a calm common man can use his mind and trick each and every. It gives us a motive that every silent man is not weak.
The main character of the film, I think that after watching, everyone fell in love. First of all, an excellent actor, not everyone can play such a brilliant role so brilliantly. To convince the audience of your image so much is simply superb! The image itself is amazing, I don't know whether I fell in love with an actor or with a hero !? Hide behind all your talents, with a smile, such a secret, and without telling (only then with guesswork and ingenuity) even your only friend in prison - get out! Hope is the main thing for every person. And also to remain human everywhere, even in prison.

This movie is outstanding, a brilliant art and certainly one of its kind. No doubt why 27 years have passed and still it is everywhere, infact ruling IMDb too. Hats off to everyone part of this masterpiece esp. The director, cast and writer.
:3 THIS WAS VERY AMAZING!!!! I WOULD LOVE TO WATCH THIS AGAIN.

Very good.

"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty -- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off despair.
I liked the film from the bottom of my heart. Absolute masterpiece.
This is the film that seems to make people excited that they can tell other film-lovers that they like, because it seems sophisticated. With it's captivating title and the feel-good story of friendship, it's about as complicated as most American movie-goers can get. This can be a decent one to keep on, if you switch to it on TV and have some laundry to fold. However, there are hundreds of films I'd rather watch to stimulate my mind. I would have said thousands but I've only seen slightly over a thousand films so far. I know that many people have a special place for this film in their heart, but they never really seem to stop and ask themselves "why?". Shawshank does have a few, fun gotcha-type moments, and the shot of Andy in the stream after escape is quite memorable. However, the film itself is not one of those birds whose feathers are too bright that "are not meant to be caged." This film needs to stay shelved when we are discussing the greats. It can find itself comfortably and appropriately filed between Shallow Hal and Shiloh.
When you watch this movie,direction is so good you will feel yourself in jail and even that if you go outside you're gonna miss the jail...........but the suspense they open in the last i'm 100% sure you're not regret it i would give it a 11 out of 10 if they'd give me a way.............

Shawshank Redemption is a great film. This is one of the best dramas ever made, and probably Morgan Freeman's best film. One of the reasons why it was so good is the voice-over in the film. Morgan Freeman has a superb reading voice and works well as a narrator. I think the best scene is when Andy plays the opera music and all the prisoners look up to the speakers as if it is a God or idol. It shows a glimpse of freedom in the eyes of the prisoners. Also the story-line was excellent, but I dont think that it was explained clear enough what happened in the beginning. But it still is one of the best films made.
Hi Friend I never See that type of Series. I Like That. It is master Piece. It is Full Of action. I love that the end of movie. Hero is so Awesome.

The Godfather's plot is slow and the pace of The Godfather is slow. However, neither these flaws are fatal flaws. The slow pace adds to The Godfather's elegiac qualities. The best thing about the plot is its unpredictable nature. You have no idea where it will take you next. At 18 I was unsure if I was old enough for this film to be appreciated or understood. But I am now able to fully appreciate it as the masterpiece that it is.
One of the best classic movies out there.

Wouldn't say its a hundred times rewatch, but definitely worth the hype!
I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and it gets better with every showing.
Patience,Hope, Determination and hard work ,the key of success Must watch movie once in a lifetime Strong message and life changing.... Do watch.
I must have seen this movie over twenty times, and every time i watch it feels like the first time i'm watching it. words escape me in describing how good this movie is, and i dare say that "The Godfather" became second on my list because of it. Simply Amazing, simply invigorating, simply a masterpiece. If the 20th century's best piece of art was to be searched for, then search no more. This is the definitive piece of art that movie makers should look up to. The minimum length for a comment is 10 lines, but what more can i put down to describe such a movie. i own four copies of this movie 2 regular edition DVDs and 2 Special Editions. do i need to say more. Do yourself a favor and acquire a copy, you'll be glad you did.
Fantastic film. Such enticing. It is a Stephen King adaptation of the novellas Rita Hayworth and The Shawshank Redemption.

Best movie i have ever seen. Made me rethink some parts of my own life.
I am stunned after watching this . This is a proper life witnesss movie . I fell in love with morgan freeemans acting here . This film is lenghty but its full of entertainment and joy .
A masterclass in pretty much every category. An incredible script, wonderful direction, gorgeous score and phenomenal performances by Freeman and Robbins. Cinema doesn't get any better than this.
"This is no fairy tale"
Red (Morgan Freeman)


No matter if you watch this movie in the 2000s or In the year 2040.

This movie is always going to leave you with satisfaction and completeness.

The narration, acting, storyline, screenplay are thought and executed to all most perfection.

A story about an escape that narrates life as it is inside those walls.
Until past few year this movie still now top rating in imdb. I seen this movie when i live with my parents, story are so impressive .
Its really a good movie but this movie don't deserve the firs and best movie ever.
They just don't make movies like these now-a-days.
This is one of the few titles I wish everyone had in his library. It's a film to be watched again and again. It's a timeless masterpiece.

The Shawshank Redemption has the power to first make you look inward and then uplift you more than any other film. It's meta score should be 100. Shame to those self declared critics.
It's Wonderfull. Mind Blowing.

Best Movie Ever. Must Watch. Slow In The Starting But It Changes All.
This Movie Started Slow But Then Little Twist Change All . Must Watch Movie.
A great movie, a masterpiece from start to finish, in all its details. EXCELLENT.


Today is Aug 2021, I am watching movie from 94, It like produced this year, truly this movie is over my expectations. Believe me or not, if u love to see drama or not, u will enjoy it. Watch it till the end then let me know if you will not enjoy it.
GUYS I FEEL LIKE THIS IS A GOOD MOVIE AND YES! I WILL WATCH IT!
Hope is a good thing,may be the best of things, And no good thing ever dies....ðŸ’“ðŸ’“

It is the best movie I have ever seen no cap better than all movies it is the best movie I have ever seen no cap better than all movies.

King is one of the best writers in the world. Books like IT and the Castle Rock series are some of the greatest stories ever told. But his best adaptations are always done by the best directors. The Shining was brilliantly interpreted by Kubrick and of course the aforementioned Misery and Stand By Me are both by Rob Reiner. Now Frank Darabont comes onto the scene and makes arguably the best King film ever. He seems to understand what King wants to say and he conveys that beautifully.

What makes this film one of the best ever made is the message it conveys. It is one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins, has been sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he never loses hope. He never gives up his quest to become a free man again. His years of tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane, but it gives his mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a different feel to it. There has never been anything like it before and I don't know if there will again.
Best friendship movie in the world and jail life explain is perfect. That movie watch night time then better experience. My rating in the movie is 10/10. Defenatly must watch movie in your life. Most motivation content in this movie.
Good an awsome move watch it it is a best movie ever.

Shawshank Redemption is worth watching at any time. If you haven't watched it yet then you have missed one of the greatest movies. The best thing about it is that you will love the pace at which the movie will forge ahead and there will be a glimpse of a smile at many scenes on your face.
Story, action every thing of this movie i enjoy to watch.
Speechless with this film. What a performance by all that actors in this film.

There are just no words to describe just how cleverly put together the script is. The actors are at there very best. Freeman and Robins have a chemistry that is unique to find these days. It can only be described as a classic.

The directing is on point and the cinematography.

In the day of DVD, this would have been a must as part of a collection.

I would struggle to rate a movie higher than this. In a movie void of CGI, the film relies just on story and superb old school acting.

You will want to watch this movie again and again as the years go on.
As I mentioned in the title, the main reason of popularity of this movie is to address all ages.

When I was a child watching Shawshank with my parents I could understand the messages as well as today. Such a masterpiece!
Everything about this movie is excellent. The plot, the acting, the suspense, the "realism", so much more. Love it.
Everyone deserves a Oscar for the way each actor has acted in the film.
Best. This webpage requires data that you entered earlier in order to be properly displayed. You can send this data again, but by doing so you will repeat any action this page previously performed.

Press the reload button to resubmit the data needed to load the page.

ERR_CACHE_MISS.
The Shawshank Redemption is written and directed by Frank Darabont. It is an adaptation of the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. Starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, the film portrays the story of Andy Dufresne (Robbins), a banker who is sentenced to two life sentences at Shawshank State Prison for apparently murdering his wife and her lover. Andy finds it tough going but finds solace in the friendship he forms with fellow inmate Ellis "Red" Redding (Freeman). While things start to pick up when the warden finds Andy a prison job more befitting his talents as a banker. However, the arrival of another inmate is going to vastly change things for all of them.

No words to describe how I felt after watching this movie. It touches you to the core and makes you see your life from a whole different perspective. Unbelievable work of art!
If you haven't seen this movie I don't know what you've been doing...

A beautifully moving story of perseverance and friendship in the seemingly bleakest of scenarios.

A must watch for anyone and everyone.
This movie takes you like a storm, starting of easy, but as the movie moves along you get pulled back in your seat just enjoying the fine acting, and story..

Morgan Freeman, and Tim Robbins does some of the best acting i've ever seen...

THIS IS A MUST SEE!!
The Shawshank redemption " is based upon legendary stephen king's novel which represents very truth of life never lose hope because it probably best of all . Great direction by frank darabondt , impeccable script , screenplay , towering performances by cast made this movie greatest movie ever made . Duffrian's relentless effort to get away from prison life stands him alone from others , life in prison is totally different one just have to confront his /her fear trauma , one has to tackle with them else life will be nothing less than hell , also keep your mind busy as mind itself can be most troubled thing in prison life if it remained unattended . Casting is another great thing about this movie , characters of Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman have been crafted by director so perfectly that they have become great source of inspiration for all.


"Hope is a good thing apparently best of all & good thing never dies ." This line from this movie shows the real truth of what humans need most. " The Shawshank Redemption " is based upon the legendary Stephen king's novel, which describes the very truth of life never lose hope because it is apparently best of all. Excellent direction by frank Darabont, impeccable script, screenplay, towering fulfillment by a cast made this movie the most worthy film ever made. Casting is another great thing about this movie. This great movie is absolutely an everything gem of world cinema. Don't miss this great movie. It's a lifetime experience of a kind you won't ever forget.
Brilliant movie with unexpected twists and turns. Best acting from all the cast. Just awesome work from the entire crew. There are a lot of nail biting and edge of the seat moments. A must watch movie.
This movie is not like other movie you haver ever seen. The message and the way it is build is perfect.
I can't say anything that'll do this movie justice, just go and watch it, you won't regret it.
This movie shows a great friendship between main characters Red and Andy. People should strive to gain an understanding and have immense respect for one another. Andy gave hope to Red throughout their friendship. I learned there is a right moment for everything, because Andy planned to escape from the prison when no one had any idea. When the warden was caught saving that money, by filing false claims, he ended up killing himself. This shows that justice seeks to find itself in the end. This movie was shocking, because no one would have thought about how Andy planned his escape. However, if you watched the movie closely you could see hints about how Andy was strategic on his every move,like a chess game is played out.
Bomb and bomb movie. I respect Frank Darabont. I like his films. In short this movie best and best, bomb and bomb!!!

Best sides: Soundrack, action, acting skills.
The Shawshank Redemption, release in 1994, was released to critical acclaim and box-office success. Morgan Freeman ever won the oscar. I too love this movie. I will take the DVD of this film to my grave.
Simply incredible. Never before have I seen a 3 hour movie that didn't seem like 3 hours. I read the Lord of the Rings very recently and I was surprised at how similar Peter Jackson's vision was to my own.

Now about the omissions and alterations. I'm not a crazed fanatic who gets worked up over every little detail. I didn't mind Arwen's inflation and I'm actually glad Tom Bombadil was scrubbed (I felt Tom Bombadil was an unnecessary addition to the book). Despite these minor changes, the screenplay stays extremely close to the book and flows very very well (and the prologue was a nice touch)
I like this film so much! I don't believe that somebody can make a great film. That is amazing idea and insprise. I will introduce that with my friends.

watch it twice, thrice or how many ever times, the shawshank redemption is one movie that you can never call boring, especially for the way it has dealed with abstract terms like humanity and hope. the movie does have its flaws such as Red being the only guy who's hair has greyed after 33 yrs in prison. but then, when you watch such a great movie, these flaws are easily to be forgotten.what is to be remembered is the victory of the human spirit.
Interesting that although the hero of the film is the convicted former banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), the action is never seen from his point of view. The film's opening scene shows him being given two life sentences for the murder of his wife and her lover, and then we move, permanently, to a point of view representing the prison population and particularly the lifer Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman). It is his voice remembering the first time he saw Andy ("looked like a stiff breeze would blow him over"), and predicting, wrongly, that he wouldn't make it in prison.

What an amazing emotional film. Performances are all top notch, and the story is so moving. Tim Robbins as the quiet and introverted Andy gives us a look at performances to come, and Morgan Freeman proves as always he can be counted on to give an authoritative performance. While the name "Stephen King" attached to a film might suggest something in the horror genre, this simple tale of men in prison is so much more. The sublime moments, while small move so much. And the character Brooks deserves special mention too, simply moving. Frank Darabont has created something with this film, and it will stand as one of (if not THE) greatest films ever made for quite some time.


The most impressive movie and screenplay I've ever seen.

It will always remain a masterpiece.

Everyone knows the story. It is the escape struggle of someone who has been wrongfully arrested.
It took me 23 years to watch this movie. 23 whole years, and it was one of the best movies I have ever seen. The simplicity, the story line, everything just amazing. I have read plenty of reviews and many people suggested that I see this move and I have actually owned it for a number of years but never took the time to watch it. I then read a book called 1001 movies you must see before you die and of course, this was one of the movies. I decided to make a list and start making movies off. I am so glad I did but this is a jewel that I would have never taken the time to watch.
GOOD!!! Movie Morgan Freeman is a good actor, and he is still kicking it at 80 and hope for many many years to come
Honestly, for me the movie is almost a 10/10 and I never consider anything perfect.

Didn't feel the time passing at all, more like 10 minutes!

It is an incredibly great movie - the way the prison is presented truly made you feel like you're mesmerized.

So the director never made anything else really? Intrigue on top of quality., The plot. The script. The storytelling. The cinematography. The acting. The music. Everything.

One to re-watch again. And then again.

This movie kept me completely engulfed in the movie and it's characters. It is well written and the acting is top notch. I watch this movie once or twice every couple years and it's like watching for the first time everytime.
Andy Dufresne has been at Shawshank for 19 years. He spent 19 years of his life in captivity for a murder he did not commit. During this time, he especially told Red and the people around him not to lose hope by turning on small lights in such bad conditions. It's time for Andy to get rid of Shawshank. In his last conversation with Red, he tells her that he has to choose between living fast and dying fast.

Andy makes a will-like request to Red. If he goes out, he says that there is something very important belonging to him under the volcanic glass, a stone that is not of this world and buried under an oak tree in the place he describes. This is one last piece of advice that will keep Red's hopes up.
It was given by a friend as a marriage gift, I loved this movie right away. everything is soo perfect, the music, the narration, the end. When I feel down here is the dvd.... and I am perfectly in a good mood. I really thank my friend for giving me this movie.
Simply marvelous entertainment.

A tough, complex story with clarity, compassion and considerable dramatic force. An amazing movie. Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and definitely one of the top 'prison' movies of all-time.
as with many others i first saw this film on video and after watching it i was stunned by what is a very simple story told in such a way that at the end of the film i knew i had watched a cinematic masterpiece. the performances of robbins and freeman are excellent but i believe all the cast make this film what it is. a modern classic
The Shawshank Redemption takes depth in the basis of human communication; perception. Before the ending of the film, the viewer takes on almost a similar perception towards Andy as Red as the story is from Red's point of view. However, at the end of the film, the viewer learns that what we perceive about somebody or something, may turn out to be something else at the end of the day. If you do not want to waste time watch this movie.

Although the shawshank redemption was an amazing movie which excelled in almost every category, I cant help but notice it was heavily inspired by other prison movies such as escape from Alcatraz. Regardless of that the plot was pretty predictable as to how Andy was going to escape and there is no factor that makes it one of the best of movies of all time. I love how the movie ended on a high note but overall it's a 7/10.
One of the best films that give hope in a place surrounded by despair and corruption. The performance of the actors was more than wonderful, and the plot of the film is more than excellent, and it is enough that it is the strongest rating so far.
The Shawshank Redemption has great performances, extremely well written script and story all leading to a deeply emotional climax! One of the best dramas of all time!
A person can did anything, nothing is impossible, for him. The movies learn us to keeps faith in God and makes your path with full of positive vibes and attitude.

Really nice movie.

Once you must watch this.
A movie hard to forget. Excellent at every aspect. Great performances by Tim and Morgan.

If I feel low for any kind of reasons, I just sit and watch this movie. I have a list of my favorite movies. In the list there are name of the movies like the pursuit of happiness, good will hunting, into the wild etc. In the top of the list there is this name. You can say it my all time favorite movie and I can watch it any number of times irrespective of the situation. I'm no one to say which one is best movie, but I can definitely say that this movie is a masterpiece and you will feel the warmth of happiness for believing in the positive side of people. Believing in love, hope and friendship is truly an exclusive feeling and this Shawshank Redemption give me 100 times of this.


I think it would be wrong to call this movie a normal movie because it has a life story beyond the movie, it's an amazing story and it is one of the best movies I've seen in my life, which should definitely be watched before you die. Definitely watch this movie, I don't know what else to say.
I think it would be wrong to call this movie a normal movie because it has a life story beyond the movie, it's an amazing story and it is one of the best movies I've seen in my life, which should definitely be watched before you die. Definitely watch this movie, I don't know what else to say.

This is the greatest movie of all time. It is based on a Stephen King novella. He is the best author there is. This movie stars Morgan Freeman. One of the best actors there is. This is a highly emotional masterpiece. It draws you and and does not let go until it wants to. A great date movie. A great anything movie. See it.
This film is probably the best life-in-prison film ever made. It depicts one man's time in the big house for something he (supposedly) didn't do. This man is Andy Dusfresne (pronounced Duframe) played in his best ever, Tim Robbins. But he isn't alone; he is joined by fellow inmate (who is the only guilty person in Shawshank) Red played also very well by Morgan Freeman. Freeman narrates the life in The Shawshank prison all the way up until the end (not to mention some very memorable escape scenes). Very memorable, showing what movies are made of. Based on Stephen King's novel (one of his best) and adapted for the screen and directed by Frank Darabont, who 5 years later would write and direct the Green Mile, another good (but can't be matched to this one) prison movie. A++
It is just so well acted. You believe it all and want more of every single character!

Clever, moralistic and entertaining.

Hollywood has done very few consequential movies since (V For Vendetta, Captain Fantastic and perhaps Watchmen..) so grab this one if you have not watched it.
I watched this movie just to pass out some good time... and you know what.. i had sore and wet eyes at the end.. i don't know why but the movie's end, couldn't stop myself..

andy's portrayal by tim robbins and red's by morgan freeman was absolutely great..

i like and love andy's philosophy that "hope is a good thing.." .. and i have tried to inculcate that in me.. i just loved the movie.. i was like.. whats this, its ended so fast.. i didn't it want to end.. i am not a con and neither i wanna be.. but it has shown even the guys out there in the prisons also can be innocent.. and to prove their innocence they can go to any lengths.. i mean that they also have got something in them.. their hearts.. the spirit shown by andy was absolutely great.. it shows that when you want to do something, do it with full heart.. i have just finished it..but i'm sure i m gonna watch this very often, and am not going to forget it for a long length of time..
I only just viewed this film, which my mum said would be good watch in my revision breaks. And it is! its very hooking in the sense that you cant stop once you begun, but i had to as i did an hour of revising before hand, having 30mins of viewing time. Then i gave up revising when i had enough of this stop start routine and watched it through. And i think its influential to any type of person out there, and if you have time to watch it. As its most probable my "now" favourite film. As i really like horrors and sci-fi's i thought i wouldn't like this. but anything that Stephen King writes or Frank Darabont directs.

I recommend this to anyone.
I didn't think anything bad would happen because of the high score. I am very impressed. It is a production that I will watch over and over again as I remember it from time to time. Sorry for watching so late.
Perhaps a little too long, but Fight Club is just a very well-made, brilliantly written and superlatively performed film. Essentially a satirical fable, it tells of an insomniac loser teaming up with a seditious soap salesman to form a no-holds-barred-fight club as an outlet for their direction-less aggression. This concept is an intriguing and original one, and works really well. Then there is the script, it is absolutely superb, with dialogue that will make you both laugh and think. Fight Club is very well made, with elaborate production design, great editing and startling images. David Fincher's direction is brilliantly handled and the performances of Edward Norton and Brad Pitt are superb. Overall, just a great film, a mesmerising ride through the 1990s male psyche. 9/10.
All i can say is its not only a movie for a film maker its a film school too


A wonderful film with a wonderful cast. A very long climax makes you not lose sight of the plot. It was very pleasant to watch this historian, I will definitely recommend this film to my friends.


Good Movie, Good Film, Good Actors, Good Director, Good Crew all around. Highly overrated - this does not meen that this is s bad movie. - I just think, personally, that "No Country for Old Men" by the Coen Brothers is better... I recommend this movie - it's good, Good Movie, Good Film, Good Actors, Good Director, Good Crew all around!

The film is a breathtakingly simple story: an innocently convicted guy is imprisoned, and how he manages to live there. And it is to live, not to exist like everyone else. Especially considering that he knows that he is sentenced for a very long time.

A film that gives you the opportunity to think about a lot of things. A man like Andy Dufresne (played by Tim Robbins) can be an example of how to live and deal with all the troubles.

The entire cast is wonderful. Of course, Morgan Freeman could have been singled out, but in my opinion, none of the actors stood out from the overall picture.

I don't think anyone stood out, but I don't think any of the actors stood out. It was a movie to see.
Something really wonderful to watch every few years while wishing that you were watching it again for the first time.

I believe several reviewers here together with critics (which I normally don't agree with) have already reviewed this movie far better than I could I'll just leaving my final thoughts on it.

Personally I really enjoyed watching Andy from start to finish with Red and the other supporting cons coming together in a really enjoyable set of tales that united them all in the horrible place that they were pushed into. Sure, they were all (mostly anyway) guilty and deserving of their new "digs" however watching and wondering if it really was possible to bend circumstances to make life just a little better in such a hell hole sure was entertaining.
This the good moive and good graphics and good sound. The story telling is the best scene to watch and good at comedy and full fun of the good scenes. Film criticism is the analysis and evaluation of films and the film medium. In general, film criticism can be divided into two categories: journalistic criticism which appears regularly in newspapers,
It really was one of the best and most instructive films I've seen in my entire life. The theme of the film really makes people eager to pursue the film.

This was really good.

Sometimes we see some sort of movies that don't have good endings but this one is something else.

Full of Hope and have both emotional and funny scenes.

This is an engagingly simple, good-hearted film, with just enough darkness around the edges to give contrast and relief to its glowingly benign view of human nature.

It was a perfect movie I ever seen. I really didn't expect that I had a sort of ironic feeling between good and bad. it keeps me reconsider about what is good and what is bad. I couldn't tell the answer because it made up like that. what a nice movie.
This movie showed me what inmates have to go through to survive in prison, and taught me to walk a straight line. I loved how it allows you to connect to the realism. People actually go though these things and some never will have the opportunity to be heard. This movie shows there are consequences for actions, it also shows how the judicial system is and it also shows love, hate, and triumph. Sometimes we're dealt a bad hand but you can overcome that, this movie gives hope to other prisoners that have been through similar situations. I loved it and this will always be a memorable movie.
Not for a reason. But for the fine art to create a story who seems be more than fiction and who use a script, a cast and location for a puzzle who becomes part of precious memories. Its themes, the tension, the moral questions, the meeting between Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins and the result of dialogs who are truth axis of movie and wise adaptation, are bones of a splendid film. A film who reminds more than presents. Values, roots of justice, beauty of original source, the end who is expression of a deep expectation of the viewer are elements who transforms The Shawshank Redemption in.
One of the most highest rated movies on IMDB and deserves to be so. It is just phenomenal ðŸ‘ðŸ». Very motivating, life changing, Thriller, Suspense, Drama, exciting movies of all time. Definitely amongst my fav top 10 movies of all time ðŸ¤˜ðŸ»
Amazing movie. It was really entertaining , the cast played their role really well. Morgan Freeman was really good in this movie. The plot is amazingly written and portrayed , Overall i recommend it 100% one of the greatest movies of all time.
Hollywood has done very few consequential movies since (V For Vendetta, Captain Fantastic and perhaps Watchmen..) so grab this one if you have not watched it.

You must see this film. ItÂ´s a homage about friendship, freedom. Wonderful cast, great script. Memorable moments. An excellent chemistry between Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. You will be astonishing, at the end of the movie. To see it, enjoying every minute of the story. Enchanted, gorgeous, emotional.
Love this movie and all of the GF movies. I see something new every time I have seen it (countless, truly). The story of tragedy and (little) comedy that exists in this film is easily understood by people all over the world. This film has been called an American story however I have met others who have seen this movie in other languages and they seem to have the same love and appreciation for it that I do. I love the characters and all of the different personalities that they represent not just in families but in society itself. It seems like the entire cast is part of every other movie that I love as well. The sounds, music, color and light in the film are just as much a part of the film as the people. This could be.
this movie has it all. it has an exraordinary plot and the storyline between morgan freeman and tim robbins is one that i have never seen before. no movie has a "buddy to buddy" relationship as in this movie. this movie made me cry at the end, although to be honest, it was kidna predictable how he would redeem himself. the ending was also predictiable, but still, why does a movie not have to be predictable to be great? being predicatble makes the viewer happy that the movie is headed in a happy direction.
I cannot believe this movie came out in 1994 and I just saw it for the first time today. I have been missing out! This is my new favorite movie of all time. If you haven't seen this movie yet,you MUST see it. It's Morgan Freeman's best work ever and he should have gotten an oscar for it. I have never liked Tim Robbins,but his performance deserved an oscar also.
The movie is the best I have seen so far.It is absolutely flawless.The direction is brilliant,the cast is star-studded and the cinematography is awesome.I give full marks to Frank Darabont for directing a film which made me and everybody else feel touched.The film never bores u or makes u feel sleepy.Every minute of the movie is filled with excitement.The film is begun very well and also ends brilliantly with no crap in the middle of the movie.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman Have proved why they are one of the most enigmatic and versatile actors in Hollywood.A film like this can come only once in a century.It deserves the #1 rating among the top 250.10 out of 10 is just not enough for the film.
I felt for Andy and Red throughout this movie. I wanted to help them fight the warden and those who abused them. I laughed some, I cried most but above all I believed. By the end when Andy and Red find happiness, you will be cheering for them!
This is one of the best pictures ever made. The acting, directing, screenplay...are so wonderful! But, for the Academy, the best picture of 1994 was...Forrest Gump (!!!!!!!!!!!!). This movie must have win the oscar for Best Picture, Director, Adapted screenplay and direction of photography (at least). You will never forget this movie. Go to see it, now!
most reviews measure up up to the book,,,, but this movie is better than the book....... it is the cast you see that does it

I did read the book after reading the book.... and found a tighter story..... I will watch it anytime it's os on,,,,, I do have a greater understanding of the story ........ THIS is a great movie,,,,,, if you can watch 1 movie...is is one of the top 100. even the top 50 for all, who want to tell, a story that is a template to use........hope is a thing.... that nobody can estimate and,,, no one can judge..... stories,,,,,

everybody is innocent....
For someone who always thinks they are being wrongly accused of something, this movie is the ultimate journey of one man's redemption and triumph over his past. Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, and the entire cast are flawless in their performances and this movie hits the head right on the nose with the social justice politics and policies of the time period that the movie appeared in. I highly recommend this film to anyone who loves a good "man vs. nature" story. One of my favorite scenes is when Timothy plays the opera music in the office. The Italian arias that the two women sing are incredibly beautiful and speak to the caged bird that he has become who wants to break free and soar past his circumstances

Deserves an Oscar for the vignette around Brooks Hatlen alone. When film students begin the path of learning about the art of motion pictures, they would be well served to study this as an example of what can be accomplished by a master craftsman.

Using a simple plot as a foundation around which all the necessary detail and thoughtful insight of human conditions can be layered, this is the closest you can come to telling a story flawlessly on film.

Screw all that. How good is it? Every single time I'm flipping through the channels and I see it's on, it doesn't matter where it is in the plot or time-line, I stop and watch.

Every time.
Simply one of the FINEST movies ever produced by Hollywood. Great in all aspects - acting, story line, cinematography and dialogue!

Dont miss this in your life time!

I rate it 4 over 5

What more can be said about this film? It was a short story given a big budget but flopped at the box office, likely thought of as just another prison film. Then people began watching copies and by word-of-mouth the characters, the plot, the sheer brilliance of the story grew so as it became almost legend.

Gripping, harrowing, horrific, and finally uplifting due to its totally unexpected ending you may well find yourself appalled, laughing, sad, angry and finally even shed some tears whilst watching this intelligent and moving film. The ending is exceptional.

A cinematic masterpiece, now enhanced by being available on BluRay and well worth obtaining.
I wasn't sure if I wanted to see this movie or not, but my brother kept raving about it and finally made me watch. I'm tremendously glad he did.

The acting is perfectly accurate and plot leaves no gaps or unbelievable events that spoil the whole movie. This movie was amazing and was instantly my favorite movie. Morgan Freeman is absolutely perfect and so are Robbins and the rest of the cast. Wonderfully well put together as Freeman narrates his character's (Red) thoughts which I thought was pretty cool.

I've never written a comment on IMDb, but this moment compelled me to write one. By far my favorite movie of all time.
All cast and the story line is one of the best that ever made on history. That man cried one of the most iconic scene that i always remember , if you looking for the old ones but have a great story teller movie from begining to the end you should watch this movie .
Having read Stephen King's short story when it was first published I never would have predicted it would be made into a movie. The movie adaptation is also alot more interesting than the original story, mainly because the characters are better developed and the story is livlier. This is one of the few movies that surpasses the book. The weakest point of this movie is the rather one-sided view of the penal system, even in the dated version of this story.
It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250 list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway you.

Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will understand why this is my all time favorite movie.
If you are looking for a movie about strong human feelings you should see this one. Stories like this make you believe again in people's strength. It's amazing how faith and hope could take the character so high, up to the point of taking everything jail had for him. His need of freedom takes his mind away from that terrible place.

Man, every time I see the scene where he is down the rain and he looks up, i get chickenskinned. This is a beautiful story.

Everyone of the actors did a great job.


Shawshank Redemption, a true heart warming epic has sat in my heart among my favorites. Tim Robbins has given the performance of his life, even after watching the movie again and again, i cant stop thinking what he did, how patient and intelligent the guy was that even his closest friend morgan freeman cant think of what he can do or what he did. The strong dialogues and the delivery makes an unstoppable emotional attachement between the characters and audience. If you havent seen it, dont blame me why you are missing it.
This movie is so timeless...it is definitely an instant classic. This isn't even my type of movie, but if you have a heart, you will be extremely moved by this touching story. I would never hesitate in recommending this movie to anyone!
The best film ever made! Everything about this film is a high standard and inspirational!
What an incredible film...it chills my nerves watching this ...
The movie was just brilliant. Just the right actors had been picked and the movie was just great. I recommend sincerely if you haven't already seen it.
I feel like people ranked this movie so high just because it was the thing to do. The movie was overall just "okay" if you really look at it and pick it apart.
Never gets old. A masterpiece and worth watching more than once. Little details emerge that you might not have noticed first time round.

The best movie I've seen so far. it is from 1994 but it is still in the top
I fully agree that The Shawshank Redemption in number one on TOP list. I can watch that movie everyday and it let me remember what is important in our life. Fantastic actress, movie fully deserved for all rewards.
Probably one of my favorite movies. Definitely a must watch. Slow moving but oh so good. Probably one of my favorite movies. Definitely a must watch. Slow moving but oh so good. Probably one of my favorite movies. Definitely a must watch. Slow moving but oh so good. Probably one of my favorite movies. Definitely a must watch. Slow moving but oh so good.
A stunning example of the craft of film making in all aspects.

This is the best of the best movie of all time...!!!
Just awesome...loved the movie... my all time favourite
At one time this movie was my faveorite of all time, but then I saw it repeated 2000 times on Turner's cable networks. Although the book by Stephen King is much better than the movie, the message that hope lives on, remains. I have to admit that I never liked Tim Robbins untill I saw this movie, but I thought he did an excellent job in what is one of the great movies of the nineties.

I have just finished watching this movie, and I have no words in how to describe this movie. It is absolutely the best movie I have ever seen. I have given this movie a 10 because the story is almost life changing, and differs the views of people about the world. Everybody should get a chance to watch this movie, it is life changing! Ten out of ten should definitely be the number 1 movie of all time, because it is such a good story, with such moving acting.
This movie is just simply fantastic. Every scene is perfect. I had a very good time watching it. It is definitely a must-see.
I really enjoyed this one. The lead actors did a fantastic job portraying their characters. I never felt like there were any scenes that left me feeling empty. There were parts in the movie that I felt like I knew how the emotions of the characters actually felt. Needless to say I believed them. I find it hard to watch movies where I don't believe the characters in the movie. But these guys really did their job. Of course I usually find myself enjoying the roles that Morgan Freeman plays. He's got a great knack for this sort of stuff. I was really glad that I watched this one and will watch it many more times in the future.
Topjfjfjffjgkgkgkgkgkgssfg Hhkgjfiggkg Gkgglgkhkgkgkgkgkffjrufjxjxjxneeqwurutkg ggf. gkxkxzyjfjf
No spoilers here.

A remarkable Stephen King penned story. King has often found ways of getting to wonder about even our most strongly held values. Most consider people in prison as throwaway members of society, and those that guard the prisons as public servants. King twists this into the protagonist prisoner (Robbins) against the hopelessness of prison and the brutal display of power by the warden. The story is beautifully narrated by Morgan Freeman as ex-con Red.

It lost out to Tom Hanks' portrayal of Forrest Gump for Best Picture, which is a shame, but I'll never forget the impact it made on me.

The film has an edge, and a heart. I couldn't recommend it enough.
I really do think that this movie has earned a place in the illustrious halls of Imdb at the number two position. This movie gives you more each time you see it. It is not an exercise of the mind, rather a true introspection of the spirit, that reveals to each of us what we can only hope to become.

However, I do think that Fraggle Rock deserves a place at number four.
This is a normal average movie . People are just hyped because it is in #1 . And I don't think those people have seen a lot of movies . It's way too much overrated in my opinion . My honest rating would be 7/10

This movie makes me feel like the energizer bunny - I can keep watching and watching and watching...It's incredible. The Shawshank Redemption is of the few movies which I can watch always, even if I know what's coming.
This movie can be summed up into just that word, WOW. I mean out of all the movies i have seen in my life this one i have loved from the first time i watched it to the last time watched it. Everytime this movie is just as exciting and interesting as the time before. It has a great cast and story and truly captures the fight of oppression and the challenges of the Human Spirit. Very inspirational and a timeless classic.
Its a wonderful film to watch, with different moods and sub plots throughout the film all woven together beautifully.
Motivational movie with good content, story, direction, actuon and screenplay is the hero
If you wanna learn a new lesson about life. You should watch it.
This is without a doubt my favorite movie. I can see this movie so many times, and I never get tired, because I always feel the magic and the beauty of it. Almost all the time when I talk about movies, I strongly recommend The Shawshank Redemption.

The roles of Andy Dufresne, Red, Brooks and several others are very well performed. This movie just have it all: excellent music, it's fantastically written, good acting, etc.

It's so hard to believe that this wonderful movie was not awarded neither at The Oscars nor The Golden Globes, but the best of all is that The IMDb voters have it at #1. It really deserves to be at the top.
It's weird to see a good rated movie only after ten years and find yourself smiling happily at the end. There are less and less movies able to provide that feeling.

The Shawshank Redemption is one great movie that reaches to your heart and mind and makes them both better. I won't go around comment about how it's like or how it's been made. I just wanted to share what it made me feel like.

If you haven't seen it, go out, rent it and watch it. It's definitely worth the time and the money. I finally understand why its rating is that high.
This is one of the best movie I have ever seen. I changed myself many things. Thank you director and storytelling
Without The Shawshank Redemption, which can be called best?! These day, i check in every day in time with my suit, and live a peaceful life. some day, i feel not good, i need refresh my soul, i need bring some light into my heart. so i get The Shawshank Redemption and watch it. It has been 15 years after Frank Darabont made The Shawshank Redemption this greatest movie until now. It says:"the greatest makes every one feel in the same greatest way",The Shawshank Redemption is something like this. When some one got be sentenced to spend his rest entire life in the prison, the more hope he carries, the more dangerous he is. but Andy told Red, hope is good, and goodness never die. so Andy can hold his hope and dig the tunnel to out of Shawshank, when he finally crosses the tunnel, and shout aloud under the rain. the faith of hope breaks every nest.


This is a classic movie, kind of an adventure which will give you goosebumps for many days. Highly recommended. This movie has so more than one story going on and it needs a real good observation to understand all the aspects. If you can watch it with film critics, watch it as they will add a new angle to watching the movie. After watching try to add some of the aspects of the movie to your life as this movie teaches us many lessons of life.It also shows to us that how harsh prison life can be and a person needs to be mentally strong to handle himself in the jail.He must also make friends in jail as they can help him.
I too, will not go into the plot details, etc. We actually visited the Ohio Reformatory in Mansfield Ohio today, where it was filmed - it's the 25th Anniversary and it was well worth the trip and tour. After we returned home, we viewed the movie (just finished it), and having been there, it gives new depth to the film. If you ever get the chance to visit the Shawshank Trail, or just tour the Reformatory, do it.
With all due respect to Forrest Gump, this was the real best picture of 1994. Tim Robbins gives the best performance of his career, and Morgan Freeman is his usually outstanding self. The story is totally engrossing, and never loses your attention. And if you are watching the movie for the first time, the ending will throw you for a loop. This is one of the most underrated films of all time. It deserves must more respect than it usually receives.
The movie of a lifetime. I'm not going to compare it with the Forrest Gump or the Godfather series, but this movie stands out saying 'I'm the One!'.

Remarkably perfect screenplay, wonderful dialogues and an unmatched cast, this movie takes you to a journey through a life of a prisoner. You never get bored of the movie even for a split-second though the movie goes beyond 2 and a half hours if I remember. You realize what it is to be a prisoner and its horrible after effects and the deferment of human rights there. Perhaps you may have committed a crime, but that surely makes you think twice before you commit a mistake/crime.

Unmatchable cinematography and this movie indeed sets a benchmark for the ones to follow!

This movie gets you out of any bad mood to a state of serenity, Every conversation got deep meanings inside of it.

The Shawshank redemption was made to inspire all of us to never ever give up. The cast just fit right in their roles their voices move the right feelings in the right time. Tim Robbins gave his best performance of all time the way he talks and walks reflects his calm personality in the movie with a smile always on his face. Morgan freeman was great as usual specially as a narrator.

excellent performance and great story sets an example of friendship and hope. A must see for everyone.
Everything about shawshank is memorable. Both Tim Robbins And Morgan Freeman deliver wonderful performances, the dark mood settings in the prison and Andy(Tim Robbins)response to these drab settings, the superb cinematography, the masterful plot with its unique twist, the soundtrack,the simple idea of hping to be free. What more can i say, its truly a modern day masterpiece.
I can relate so much with the character Andy, it resembles me a lot. Tim and Freeman were awesome with their acting skill
Thats movie change a lot of things in mylife, my oppinion and behave. realy so real and feeling
Great movie i thought because its toooo real.. the same thing basicly today just in in another form. two of my favorite actors
Definitely a really good movie but not the best. I don"t really feel like to watch this movie again and again, I believe people rates effect each others that's why it is going stay as number 1 forever.
One of the most watchable and instructive films ever! Look at it you won't go wrong.


One of the best movies I never forget! Both actors are great! No doubt it is listed in IMDB's top movies.
When I raad the book in 90's I remember that I was think to my self like "Wow, if they make it a movie, it would be awesome".

I have just watched this film for the third time and it still knocks me for 6 and brings tears to my eyes. It is criminal that this film did not win any awards. That does not matter because in time if not already it will without doubt go down as the greatest film of all time. Nothing gets anywhere near it.

Good very very very goodGood very very very goodGood very very very goodGood very very very goodGood very very very goodGood very very very goodGood very very very goodGood very very very goodGood very very very goodGood very very very good
This is one of the best movies I have ever seen in my life. I think I was 14 years the first time I saw it. Mamma tell us a little for me before I got to cuddle me down on the couch and watch a movie for over 2 hours - That it has with little trouble and jail to do. After I saw the movie I wanted it to continue. Wish in the future to it will continue. You'll see how 'Red' experience meeting along with Andy Dufresne. You get to see how they manage the prison with fractions, friendship & grief. Or what happens to the 'Red' & Andy's friends. Think it would make a great blow through all categories of stellar top! I have even heard of me to Castle Rock & other to give them a tip about making a new sequel.
I dont know exactly what I liked about the movie,but I actually loved it

During watching this movie,You just forget that you are watching a movie ,it means that much emotional and realistic Performance by TIM ROBBINS AND MORGAN FREEMAN...........10/10
Overhyped socialist movie that tried to convince me that prisoners are better people then us and deserve much better treatment.
I usually don't write reviews but this has got to be said, hands-down the most magnificent movie I have ever seen! One of the few movies that actually made me cry and I'm a grown man. It had it's cries, laughs, anger, and happiness all in one complete package. Morgan Freeman is one of my favorite actors and this film truly holds him to be legendary. There is nothing about this movie I would change, absolutely perfect no complaints here. I can watch this 10+ times and still have the emotions I had when I first watch it. A must watch for everyone (age appropriate of course) because this is a masterpiece you cannot not see. You feel what the characters feel, you are part of the movie. Beautiful, stunning and heartwarming, I cannot stress enough how much this movie touched me.
This movie change my life forever..all time best movie.
This movie is the best movie ever for me ! He deserve the first place ! Story : "Two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency." -This short story said everything about this movie, i liked all the personality, specially the hero of the movie. The Director Frank Darabont he had know how to play with all the personalities and their roles. So great thank to him because he make a great movie. For the stars, "Tim Robbins" he's my best actor all time ! 14 October 1994 is a special day, so always remember it ! :D I liked everything about the movie, even the Soundtracks. I think in our day we missed the movies such as The Shawshank Redemption :(
This movie has lot's of depth and it's somewhat a rollercoaster with your emotion.

Have You not seen it, give it a go. It is old yet one of those films You should have seen at least once. I believe I've seen it about 7 times.

The story is told perfectly and it's not to dark, it has it's bright moments.
Some people say that cinema art has one purpose. Awake all our senses and lead us to it's own paths ..,well this movie does it very well ...is Art!!!!.... It's a picture about friendship , the value of life and the importance of education ..... the point its to be free wherever you are....some people are not in prison but live in fear for everyday difficulties and lose all the courage they have about life but our characters have the strength to feel free inside and catch their dream outside the prison. This movie directed perfectly !!!! Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman saw to us their tremendous talent !!! . A must see !!! p.s : is the best movie i have ever seen !!!
This is a great film. It is well constructed, the acting is superb and the characters are so likable or in the case of the pigs so detestable. This movie is one of those that makes you think deep about life, your life! Morgan Freeman makes us feel the sadness and Tim Robbins, the faith, in a dark atmosphere.
One of the best films ever! I watch it last night, it's realy nice! 2 hours of enjoying! Recommended!
Forget about what others (including myself) might suggest you'll discover in "The Shawshank Redemption;" when you watch it, you'll identify something very personal in your own life with a scene, a character, or a moment in this uncomplicated movie. When you need hope, you'll look for Shawshank. When you want to believe in the will of overcoming even the greatest obstacles, Shawshank will uplift you in ways that you can't find in movies today.
This movie was actually filmed partly in my hometown. Plus, my dad's in it. So, I'm a little partial to it. But, I have NEVER talked to someone who hasn't absolutely loved this movie. It's definitely a must see!
Everything is awesome in this movie!

The best for ever I think...
Have from a very young age been a huge fan of anything Stephen King writes and had already read the short story that this movie is based on years prior to seeing this movie.

Not everything Stephen King has written that gets turned into a movie comes out well, but this is as close to perfection as it gets and has everything you could ever want in a movie.
I WILL KEEP THIS SHORT.... If you haven't seen this movie you have wasted your life. Watch this movie as it will change the way you look at life. I have made it a priority to watch this movie at least once every year.
Excellent movie tittle need to watch the customer have to tindkldnfklnsdlnfkldlfkndasfnsdklfnsdslknfkldsnfksdnklfnklsdanfklsdnfdklsnfffffaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
I thought i've watched some really great movies in my life. The ironic thing is, every time i watch a movie that is great, i'll miss much of it because the TV is busy advertising some rubbish prime time movie like charlies angels.

Shawshank redemption is not a good movie, it's a GREAT movie. Thankfully, i got the DVD and finally watched it from start to finish. I've never watched a show that made me feel like watching over and over and over again like it has. The way the director captures human emotion, makes this one hell of a great prison movie.

The movie is great at the start, but none better when it comes closer to the end. Believe me, there will be a point your jaw will just hang open in amazement. I love this movie, if you've not watched it, please do so...
One of the greatest movie of all time. I still enjoy re-watching it once in a while.
This has got to be one of the best movies of all time. The simplicity of the direction, the casting, the performance and the suspense in the end just adds to the beauty of the story line and script. As the summary says - Simply Brilliant! Needless to say, Morgan Freeman is what makes your heart love again in this one.
This perfect prison drama has everything except women. Tim Robbins gives a truly majestic performance and should've been nominated for an Oscar alongside co-star Morgan Freeman (he's good, too). It's a whole lot better than other prison movies you see nowadays. The film is honest, deep, and shows that you can find hope in the most unlikely of places. I would give this movie ten thumbs up if I had ten thumbs. But since I don't, I'll just give it two. I wish Stephen King could write more honest stories like this one. Remember, this movie came beforere 'The Green Mile', and everyone knows classics are always better. It's nice to see that Hollywood can produce movies that aren't complete garbage.

This movie is without a doubt is one of the most brilliant films. It encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it gives hope in a dark place like prison there can be love,fun, happiness, kindness and hope...It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. A classic piece of unforgettable film-making.Frank Darabont directed only 2 movies and both of them were amazing. What more can be said about this film? Pulp Fiction and Forest Gump were released in the same year and I would still choose this movie over the other 2. Can't believe this movie didn't take home any Oscar. It's absolutely brilliant and captures the mind with its simplicity. Hollywood doesn't make them like this anymore.

Just watch the movie. I don't care what kind of movies you might typically be a fan of because this one carries true meaning. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are at their best. If you are ever feeling down, then pop this in the player because it helps. I just love this movie. I only hope I can look forward to a movie in the future that will touch me the way this one has!

See it! I promise you won't regret it.
Finally you would be happy after watching this movie
A must watch. This film really hits home. It's amazing so much can be fit into such a short film. Hanks is amazing. Delivering an amazing performance that does not disappoint. No matter how many times I watch this it has the same affect. I would not recommend for young children. A real hit. Will always be remembered. A movie you can watch 1000 times. If you enjoy this movie you will also enjoy castaway as well as many other movies that Hanks is in. It is a shame that some of the cast of actors has passed away. I hope you will enjoy this film as much as I did and it will make a positive impact on your life. There are few great films and this happens to be one.
The Shawshank Redemption is an instant classic by far.This is probably one of the most greatest movies of all time.Tim Robbins did the role tremendously.Morgan Freeman made the movie what it is today.I love this movie.Im telling you if you haven't seen this movie watch it right now.you will fall in love with the movie.The first time i saw this movie it almost brought tears to my eyes.The director Frank Darabont is a genius for this movie and we also have to thank Stephan King for writing the book.Both of those guys are amazing.please if you haven't seen the movie watch it, it will blow your mind.those who have seen this movie don't you agree with me?? This movie is great.
After watching this movie I couldn't find a specific word to describe what I was feeling and what I was thinking, the closest word that I could get was 'amazed'. Every scene of the movie brings up one different feeling, and I think that this is why I liked this movie this much. The dialogs, the actors, the scenario, everything on this movie goes directly to your mind in such a way that it makes you feel tied to the movie and you just can't stop watching it. All the aspects of the movie are great, and that is what makes the movie even better. When I watched this movie, I was paying attention to the screenplay, and in the end of the movie I was delighted with the screenplay. The writer did such an amazing job and built this awesome and unique story about prison. I strongly encourage you to watch this movie because its very hard to get the entire picture of the movie by only reading this review.

Great movie! I am so picky in movies and so hard to find good movie nowadays. But The Shawshank Redemption one of the best Movies I've Ever Seen! The Ideas the Actors all in all perfect. They told me about it many years ago, you should watch it and I kept postponed it till one Friday I said I have to spare 2 and half hours to watch then voilÃ ! Glad I've watched it.
Hey there, I must tell you I just saw the movie and it's been out like eight years or so ...Great movie even now in the 21st century. I'm sure it'll still be great many years from now, such as "Gone with the wind"- another classic. I'll sure be seeing it again and then some. I'm not gonna spoil it because I'm sure by now you've seen it or if not someone has already given you or you've read the synopsis. However, just trust me in my words, " Don't rent the movie, BUY IT! It's that Good!!!!" Well, take care and look no further this is the last advice you need :-) go see it, your "hopes" will come true!...
What can I say...Flawless, spectacular, wonderful, brilliant, great, classic, wondrous, an achievment beyond words! This movie, is without a doubt wonderful. I remember seeing only a few moments of it on TV, when I was twelve. I rented it, and found myself ASTOUNDED by the magnitude of its emotion. I didn't cry, but I felt as though someone had pierced my heart with an arrow. It felt good!!! I have never seen anything in my life so affecting. This is my favorite film ever! Nothing will ever beat this as my number one. I love Citizen Kane, and I think it is "the best film ever made" on a critical standpoint, But I love this just a little bit more. Cinematography, music, writing, directing, acting. EVERYTHING PERFECT! It is spectacular. I will never forget "The Shawshank Redemption".
I very good movie i saw ones. Is not the best movie but is ok can bee whatch again
I'm trying to save you money; this is the last film title that you should consider borrowing. Renting Shawshank will cost you five bucks... just plunk down the $25 and own the title. You'll wind up going back to this gem time and time again. This is one of few movies that are truly timeless. And it's entertaining and moving, no matter how many times you view it.

Forget about what others (including myself) might suggest you'll discover in "The Shawshank Redemption;" when you watch it, you'll identify something very personal in your own life with a scene, a character, or a moment in this uncomplicated movie. When you need hope, you'll look for Shawshank. When you want to believe in the will of overcoming even the greatest obstacles, Shawshank will uplift you in ways that you can't find in movies today.

My opinion about this topic is Awesome i found this as superb
Such a great film. On so many levels. It's a must-see!
This film deserves to be at the top,of the list. Career defining roles for Robbins and Freeman. Sometimes the movies that stand the test of time won't win the biggest awards but gain the loyalty of fans for generations. This will be one of them.
This is one of the best movie of all time! Don't waste any more time and go watch it Now!
Voted the best movie of all time, and I couldn't agree more. The film is a masterpiece and can be rewatched a 1000 times over. Thank you to all those who created this film.
it is, if not, the greatest movie i have ever seen. it is inspiring, a tribute to the great acting skills of morgan freeman and tim robbins. there are maybe two or three movies i would give a 10 to, and this is one of them. if you have never seen it before, you should watch it. movies like these are rare.
There aren't many films that have as much of an emotional pull on you than the Shawshank Redemption does. Emotions flood through and through as you watch this movie. One second it's sadness the next it's a feeling of optimism and hope. A movie which solely takes place in a prison is one of the most inspiring pieces of art to ever be released. A film which features a brilliant screenplay by Frank Darabont, astonishing performances by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, an amazing score by Thomas Newman, delightful cinematography and camera work, and a film featuring some of the greatest and inspiring themes ever seen in a film. One of the only films to ever bring me to tears, this beautiful film will stay with you forever and leave you thinking of life, and the possibility of wondrous things to come.
It is one of the best movie I have ever watched. This movie is based on the real story I guess. It shows a talented person. His passion and love for freedom. His friends salute him very much. Really the must watch movie. Will you be the same, if I saw you in heaven. No words more than this. I guess the movie may help the depressed guys to once again live up their life.
This is the most enjoyable movie ever made. With many one liners that can fill ones life with hope.This movie came out the same year that Pulp Fiction and Forrest Junk came out, the only reason this was not a Best Picture winner. Vote 10 if you can.
Why is this movie only first-runner-up? This movie is without a doubt the best movie ever created! All I'm saying is GET BUSY LIVING OR GET BUSY DYING... Thumbs up!
Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book. It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.
I really wish that I had never seen this film as I have wasted so much of my time in front of the tv watching this wonderfull film. I must have seen it about 100 times, and bought the video or DVD 5 times for myself and friends.

Well done to Frank Darrabont for making an excellent film from a very small book, I can hardly believe that 2+ hours of my life have gone so quickly. (As they say time flies when your enjoying yourself! )
This movie leave me feeling refreshed...i loved the dramatic depiction of hope and friendship
I dont know from where to start talkin about this movie.. i saw this movie around 4yrs bak. i have never been so involved in a movie before.. this totally took me by surprise .. everything about this movie be it the performance of the actors.. the story telling is excellent.. the situation of the prison life being shown really touches you.. and the climax was more than an icing on the cake.. its background score is just awesome.. esp the part of "brooks was here " i cant get enuff of that piece of music.. all in it easily comes as the best movie i have eva seen.. and one thing i usually do is make other people also watch this masterpiece.. its brilliant..
A man who was in the midst of Deception; deciding to follow it in, and with using another sin. He began to sober up, but he was too late, he turned and caught the justice of the two lovers fate. He found himself locked with in. Finding foes and friend, that sums it up for corruption. He was placed in the Dark, seeing glimpses of the light. Only to feel the need to escape his plight. He kept real cool, as far as everyone knew, but underneath his skin, a hole began to cave in. When all was said and done, his salvation laid just behind another women. Out of the tunnel in his mind, and through the muck, he was baptized. This was the man we called Andy, who ended his journey keeping the chess board ready. Seeing his new found friend, walking toward him in the sand. As he had just escaped, using the words "I don't give a Damn".
It's sad it's uplifting. It's right it's wrong. but most of all it's the greatest film of our time and everyone should have this in their collection. Everything from the heartache that tim robbins character faced to the power of friendship with one mans struggle agains a wall of oppression he made his path to the top and he fool them all. This is with out a doubt the greatest thing I have ever watched and I feel that everyone should know about it and watch it at least 20 times, for there are some valuable lessons to be learnt but dont take my word for it go there and see for yourself. This film set the marker for what prision films aspire to. These guys should be knighted and given the key to the world never mind the city.
THIS MOVIE IS ONE OF THE BEST MOVIES OF WHOLE CINEMAS HISTORY

This movie is my numbe 1 movie of all the time. It is filmed so good and the story lines up perfect. This is all time classic. I recommend this movie to everyone that havent seen in yet.
this is a must see in my opinion, a truly timeless film. One of my favorites of all time. This film is what started my deep respect for Morgan Freeman as not only an actor but a narrator. You are doing yourself a serious disservice by not seeing the Shawshank Redemption. trust me, watch it all the way through, right now, I've never heard anyone say they didn't like this film.

I don't want to say anything about it because i don't want to ruin it, see it for your self.

now.

right now.
I got lost for words. Strongly recommend this movie

Firstly, as you probably know, this film is great! There's no two ways about it, this film is great and always will be for many decades to come.

The casting is perfect and the performances of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are just brilliant. The film also has a message which all viewers will relate to in one way or another and the last half an hour is probably the best period in the film.

However, the plot of Shawshank is entirely predictable and the movie is way too long with periods where absolutely nothing is happening.

All in all, Shawshank Redemption is a great film, if not the best of the last century. It has many things going for a bit but is let down by a few dull scenes and a predictable story line.
Shawshank Redemption Is as Perfect as a Film Can Get This film has everything , Tim Robbins (Andy Dufresne) Has played His ace in his acting life With this film He plays his part so close to perfect it hurts , Morgan Freeman (Red) also played a massive part in the film and his acting at times was amazing together with tim robbins they made the film as good as it was, but even Bob Gunton (Warden Samuel Norton) played a superb ruthless warden Together with Clancy Brown (Capt. Byron Hadley) They made acting seem so easy and it was joy to watch them , also this movie had u thinking whats gonna happen next will he or wont he. It Was just one them movies that was always destined to be massive Hit with many great quotes and smooth as u can get storyline with an amazing twist to the plot that will catch u off gaurd anyone who has not seen this sould watch it soon as possible to see how films sould be made 10/10

Fear Can Hold U Prisoner. Hope Can Set U Free.
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins stand like poets, and they just enchant us with their beautiful story and poetry! Yes, now after watching the movie, you know or remember again- hope is the best of all things, and when you hope, you know the meaning of life.
Beautifully narrated ane executed on many levels. Gone, so I thought, were the days when a movie could completely captivate an audience on dialogue alone. Thank you for this masterpiece.
truly one of the best movie i have ever seen.....the acting of Morgan freeman is outstanding as it always is....also Tim Robbins has done nice work......the plot of the movie is very enjoying and won't let you get sleepy..the movie is very much interesting at all times and most of the time you cant predict what's going to happen...also the cast of the movie is very appropriate.when i watched the movie i was truly amazed by the story and no matter its the best movie of all time....also the direction of Frank Darabont is really worth appreciating...as his direction made the movie really awesome...the movie again is truly worth watching....i enjoyed watching this movie and hope you guys enjoy it too....

Everyone should watch this movie. Profoundly moving and very emotional. Amazing acting. A great watch, a true 10
In a life time, at least once, you must watch this fantastic movie. I really liked it to my heart. I was so impressed with how every single scene was given a great deal of respect and attention from the ace director. The movie has a great and deep message that everyone should take it as positive in our lives
And one of the saddest in the world! Andy really had a hard time of it. This is one of those films where I always wonder if I got stuck in jail what would my life be like? What exactly would I do? How would I live and how exactly would I survive. The only current TV show that brings back those emotions is Orange is the New Black. Feeling isolated and stuck.

The breath of this film can be summed up in a few ways but most of the human spirit and the will to survive against all odds. Hope is the answer and name of the game in this film. Trying to control your surroundings even though control is the least you have.
The movie features friendship and the bond created between two strangers who have never met each other before. How they feel comfort in a place like Shawshank which I can say is a Hell in real life. Kudos to the directors and actors for such a lovely masterpiece and a must watch for all movie lovers. Even those jaded film fans will love "The Shawshank Redemption" because it sets a new standard for films in this genre. The movie will make you emotional and sometimes sentimental take on friendship and life, even when that life is spent in a cage, and will make viewers laugh, cry, and reflect on their own lives in ways that very few movies can. It may not have won a single Oscar, but it will win your heart, and perhaps that is more important and you will realize it once you have watched this one. A strong recommendation.

MJ
I never intended to ever watch this movie. A girlfriend of mine told me "you'll love it." And after I finished watching it I was stunned. No movie other than "The Accidental Tourist" has had such an influence on my life. This movie is about hope and it shows you that it can never be lost. It also shows you that the weakest looking people may actually be the strongest. The thing about Shawshank Redemption is even if you hate dramas you'll appreciate this movie nevertheless. This movie stopped me from being an action genre junkie and turned me into a connoisseur of great movies. Even though there is no science-fiction in this movie you'll still feel that its magical. However, the first time you view it will be the best. Go see it.......it'll make your day brighter!
Like so many reviews said before: BEST MOVIE EVER if you compare it to Marvel Movies and Ben Stiller Comedies. But it's a nice watch, really well made, well written. It's ok. I get why people still go crazy about big classics like 2001, Godfather, much of the Hitchcock & Orson Welles filmography, Star wars... but i seriously couldn't find any of the bold cinematic qualities I thought made a movie a classic in this one.

You say you never saw this comin', well you're not alone Million dollar renovations to a happy home My ex says she gave me the best years of her life I saw a recent picture of her, I guess she was right I wake up, assessin' the damages Checkin' MediaTakeOut Pictures of me drunk walkin' out with a bitch But it's blurry enough to get the fake out I wake up, all veggies no eggs I hit the gym, all chest no legs Yep, then I made myself a smoothie Yeah, then me and wifey make a movie Chicago - St. Louis, St. Louis to Chicago Ãndale Ãndale E.I, E.I, uh, oh You had me drivin' far enough to switch the time zone You was the best of all time at the time though Yeah, you wasn't mine though
Easily the greatest movie ever and perhaps a little bias in my review. The length perfect, building the characters is perfection without taking it too far. The direction again perfect. Of course they nailed the narration. But honestly this is a movie I can watch again and again it's timeless even now in 2021.
BEST MOVIE EVER YOU GOING TO WATCH SPECIALLY ABOUT THE STORY


"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty -- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off despair.
The plot is so good. Everyone should watch it. Morgan's character is one of the best ever.
I like the superficial subjects has to choose for his films
"The Shawshank Redemption" has a hype so high that it is unfair to the film and its potential viewers. But it is an expertly written ocean of what a movie should be, and how a movie should capture such emotions from the audience, and how an audience will realize it is not glorified, but a masterpiece that is sure followed by almost any filmmaker by the slightest of touches. In this single film, it contains all of the basics (humor, drama, dread and redemption), but it tacks on much more. From the depths of its characters to Andy's shoes. It is about freedom, friendship and those metaphorical shackles. It's final scene could have not been so touching in a lesser movie, but it all pans out. Pans out in ways we hoped. In ways we dreamed.
What good can I say about this movie that hasn't been said already if you're in the mood for a good long movie and a happy ending then this is it.
This movie has it all. The screenplay, direction and dialogue are all first class. No movie comes near it. The speeches, Morgan Freeman's acting...my oh my, just brilliant, absolutely brilliant. The movie shows how crucial it is for us human beings to live in a world of hope, and not in fear. As he says in the movie, "...so beautiful, it can't be expressed in words, some things are best left unsaid"...that line is very true of this masterpiece. I will say no more, but just bow down to possibly the GREATEST movie that there was, there is, and there ever will be!



The Shawshank Redemption was never a summer blockbuster or a critically acclaimed behemoth of a film but it is widely regarded now as one of the best American films of all-time. Many people have cited this movie as having changed their lives for the better when they were going through difficult times in their personal or professional lives. Above all else, The Shawshank Redemption is a story about one man's ability to remain hopeful during the most difficult and harsh circumstances. As Red states at the end of the film, "Get busy livin' or get busy dyin.' That's goddamn right."

Movie is Very Much Recommended and has amazing characters, story and punches.
To me, this will be and stay a masterpiece. The acting is phenomenal and the camera angles and suspense buildup is priceless.

motivational? yes definitely..

A great movie to let out all your inner sorrows. its just more than what a movie can offer you. a movie which is suitable and a must watch for all. the dialogues are perfectly written that it reflects for everyone watching it, at least at some point in their life. the performances are top notch that one gets immersed into the movie as if you are a part of it and they are right in front of you. kudos to tim robbins and morgan freeman, they lift up the soul of the movie with their tremendous performances.the soundtrack is so well crafted that it'll be in ones mind for a long time. it can surely make a great impact in one's life and definitely worth a watch. no wonder its among the top favorites to most movie lovers. its rightly deserving and voted. please give it a watch if one haven't yet.

The Shawshenk Redenption is best movie i ever seen in this category.You can watch great acting from Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. I think Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins makes they best in this film. Congragulations for the writer because it's a Great story. Maybe it's simple but very strong and attractive scenario.Ä°n the scenario the surprises make the film better.. Ä° would like to thanks all the person who worked for this fantastic movie. The story takes you from the beginning and you are putting your self into the Tim Robbins.Simple and strong. I will watch again with my family. Ä°t show you, there is no need only computer tricks for make good movies
What to say about this movie, a true masterpiece and a well deserved 1st place here in IMDb. So many feelings felt while watching it. I could definitely watch it again and again and would have the same reactions. As someone said in another review: Excellent acting, soundtrack, photography, etc. Tim Robbins was the perfect guy for the role and all the other actors did great too. Do buy this movie because you not only will be able to enjoy it but you will learn a lot from your own reflections on various aspects of life and will be glad that you are free. The movie itself has a strong message with much impact. Don't miss it by any chance, there's a limited number of movies that will make you feel this emotional about being free and alive.
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see this one more than once.
The Shawshank Redemption is a magnificent work, in which the drama takes place in a calm, striking and surprising. Frank Darabont is the ideal person to adapt the works of Stephen King, manages to tell this heartwarming and inspirational story, conveying the hope of freedom and happiness together for the spectator. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, two superb actors, who once again showed their worth with this excellent performance. The soundtrack by Thomas Newman is magnificent. The end of the film, the way it is prepared, will surprise anyone who assists and dazzle with boldness and simplicity of this magnificent drama.
A social misfit by nature,Andy on the outside of Shawshank prison was kind of a classic loner.But with Red,he fit right in at Shawshank.Breaks rules with few of his good friends.Never hurt nobody and quite in fact help everybody in the prison including the corrupt warden.His love for music is just majestic.And so there was,Andy Dufresne ended up in Shawshank Prison for a crime he did not commit and the Warden wants to keep him there for life.Inside those walls,people changes and it's funny as Red describes.At first,just after you got in,you want to be outside.But as you move on,they were growing on them.Brooks,who spent more than 50 years inside those walls,when he got out,he saw the world changed from when he got inside.So many changes that he felt leaving this world would be easier than to live in a world you don't understand.But hope is a very good thing.
I've read the short story by Stephen King, I've seen the stage play and, of course, I've seen the film, I would say this, read the short story, don't bother with the play but, whatever you do, see this film. It really is a timeless classic. Obviously the characters and time line are a bit out which is why it helps to read the short story but that doesn't detract from the film whatsoever, so well made and acted.
